
DG - Circular No. 22/2023

Vijay Kumar, Director General of Police

IPS, Uttar Pradesh

Date: Lucknow, June 17, 2023

Subject:

Dear Sir/Madam,

I would like to draw your attention towards the hearing and disposal of public complaints. From this headquarters from time to time, circulars/letters inscribed in the latest format have been issued by which Commissionerate/District Officers are instructed to attend their office from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM. Instructions have been given to ensure quality disposal at the local level. However, it is often seen that the authorities are not available for public hearing in their police/state offices and police stations, due to which the problem of general/victims/complainants is not being resolved at the local level and they are forced to come to the headquarters. This situation is probably not appropriate.

In view of the above, it is again directed that all of you will attend your police/state offices and police stations from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM and ensure quality solution of the problems presented at the local level. In Commissionerate/District offices, information about law and order-related matters, leave or solution days, etc., will be available, and you will surely inform your senior officials about being absent from public hearing and make alternative arrangements for public hearing. Additionally, during this specified period, you will ensure your presence at your respective police/state offices and police stations, which will increase the credibility towards the police in the general public.

I expect you to strictly follow these instructions and ensure compliance from your subordinate officers. Compliance with these instructions will be reviewed regularly at the headquarters level, and in contrast, unfair action against the officer concerned will be ensured according to departmental rules. There should be no laxity in this.

Sincerely,

(Vijay Kumar)

All Zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh (by name)
All Police Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh (by name)
All Centre Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police (by name)
All District Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police, Uttar Pradesh (by name)

Copy: Send the following for information and necessary action:-

1. Special Director General of Police, Law and Order Headquarters, Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
2. Inspector General of Police, Law and Order, Headquarters, Director General of Police, U.P.
3. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Public Grievance, Headquarters, Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
4. Superintendent of Police, Public Grievance, and Headquarters, Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh