
Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow

Police Bhawan, Gomtinagar Extension, Lucknow 226002

Date: March 20, 2023

DG Circular Number 11

To,

Police Commissioner, Gautam Buddha Nagar / Kanpur / Varanasi / Prayagraj / Agra / Ghaziabad / Lucknow

All Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police, Uttar Pradesh

All Superintendent of Police (Railways), Uttar Pradesh

You are aware that millions of passengers travel through Uttar Pradesh daily through Indian Railways. These passengers also include passengers and foreign nationals from different provinces of the country. If any improper conduct is done by uniformed police personnel during the rail journey, then such messages come to the notice of millions of people on social media in a short time.

Uttar Pradesh Police is a disciplined force and has a glorious history.

In the past, police personnel and TTEs in trains have been involved in incidents of debate and misconduct for traveling in AC coaches. Such incidents have been published in newspapers and videos related to such debates and misconduct have gone viral on social media. Such unfair acts adversely affect the image of the Uttar Pradesh Government and Police Department.

Among such major events, on March 10, 2023, an incident occurred on Amarnath Express train from Bhagalpur to Jagjitpur. A police personnel traveling in the coach and TTE were involved in a debate and misconduct that went viral on social media. Similarly, on March 14, 2023, an incident occurred on Train Number-12355 Archana Express, where a police personnel and TTE were involved in a debate and assault. In relation to this incident, GRP Pratapgarh police station registered case no. 7/2023 under Sections 147, 332, 353, and 504 of the Ranbir Deshmukh Versus State (U.P.) case.

Police personnel traveling through state work are provided by the state government. Therefore, it is the responsibility of every police personnel not to conduct any such conduct during the journey so that the image of the Police Department is tarnished.

Therefore, you are directed to direct all the police personnel appointed to your subordinates to travel by rail as per rules. Legal/departmental action should be ensured as per rules if a police personnel violates the rules of rail travel and misbehaves with railway personnel.

(Devendra Singh Chauhan)
Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh

Copy: For information and necessary action for the following:

1. Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, Uttar Pradesh
2. All Unit Department Heads of Uttar Pradesh Police
3. Additional Director General of Police (Railway), Uttar Pradesh
4. All Additional Director General of Police Zones, Uttar Pradesh
5. All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General, Zones, Uttar Pradesh
6. Inspector General of Police (Railway), Lucknow-Prayagraj
7. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Railway), Lucknow-Prayagraj