
Number 6

Dr. Rakshpal Vishwakarma DG Circular /2023

IPS Director General of Police

Uttar Pradesh

Police headquarters, Gomtinagar

Extension, Lucknow-226010

Date: May 3, 2023

Subject: Regarding the implementation of cyber stations operated in eighteen environment headquarters of the state

Partial Amendment in DG Circular Number 21/2022 dated July 23, 2022

Dear Sir,

Notification number 25, dated February 6, 2020 (13)/2014 of Uttar Pradesh Government Home Police Section 6 by Registration and Regarding investigating Inspector General of Police Cybercrime, under the supervision and control of Uttar Pradesh, eighteen creator headquarters in the state, including Mirzapur, Devipatan Zone, Gonda, Azamgarh, Saharanpur, Aligarh, Kanpur, Chitrakoot Dham Zone Banda, Agra, Moradabad, Varanasi, Jhansi, and Prayagraj, Ayodhya, Bareilly, Basti, and Gorakhpur. Approval has been given to set up a cybercrime police station in each of these locations. The Cybercrime police stations are established from east to Lucknow and Gautam Budh Nagar. In this way, by setting up one cyber crime station in all eighteen areas of the state, their jurisdiction has also been determined by the above mentioned notification.

2. All 18 Cyber ​​Cyber ​​Crime police stations will make partial amendment in the pre-determined SOP DG Circular No. 21/2022 dated July 23, 2022 for the establishment and operation of these stations.

Such discussions of the IT Act in which the amount of fraud is ₹5 lakh or more, those discussions will be registered or transferred to the cybercrime police station.

The IT Act should be sent to Cyber ​​Crime Headquarters through the enclosure/zone level, not sending directly by the districts for transfer to cybercrime police stations. The order of the Q will be approved and transferred to the cybercrime police stations. It is also directed that the original records will be sent only after the order of transparent transfer.

I am confident that following the above instructions will give the expected success in curbing the increasing cyber crimes.

Sincerely,

Dr. R. Vishwakarma

To:

All Special/Additional Director General of Police, U.P. (by name)

All Police Commissioner, U.P. (by name)

Copy sent for information and necessary action to:

1. All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, U.P.

2. All District Senior/Superintendent of Police, U.P.