
Vijay Kumar, DG Circular No. 33/2023

IPS, Director General of Police,
Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension, Lucknow-226002
Date: September 4, 2023
Subject: Criminal Appeal Number- 135/2010 Buddhadev Karaskar vs. the State of West Bengal. Guidelines for compliance of order dated 19.05.2022 passed by the Supreme Court, New Delhi.

Dear Sir/Madam,

Please attach a reference to Criminal Appeal No. 135/2010 Buddhadev Karaskar vs. the State of West Bengal. The order dated 19.05.2022 passed by the Supreme Court, New Delhi, has certain instructions for the rehabilitation and welfare of sex workers. All states and union territories of the country have been directed to comply with these instructions.

The instructions given in the order dated 19.05.2022 passed by the Supreme Court are as follows:

1. Sex workers have the right to equal protection under law. Criminal law should be equally implemented in all cases. When it is clear that the sex worker is an adult and is participating consensually, the police should avoid intervening or taking any criminal action.
2. Any sex worker who is a victim of sexual harassment should be provided with all facilities prescribed under Section 357C of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, including immediate medical aid.
3. During raids on any brothel, since voluntary sex work is not illegal and only the operation of the brothel is illegal, the concerned sex workers should not be arrested, punished, disturbed, or tortured.
4. State Governments are instructed to survey all ITPA protective homes so that adult women who are in custody against their will can review their cases and process the release on a time-bound basis.
5. It has been observed that police's attitude towards sex workers is often cruel and violent. Police and other law enforcement agencies should be sensitive to the rights of sex workers, who also enjoy basic human rights and other constitutional rights.
6. The Press Council of India is urged to issue appropriate guidelines for the media so that the identity of sex workers is not revealed during arrest, raids, and rescue operations.
7. Measures used by sex workers for their health and safety should not be considered a crime nor should they be used as evidence of any crime.
8. The central and state governments should include sex workers and/or their representatives in the construction, design, and implementation of any policy or program.
9. The central and state governments should organize workshops to make sex workers aware of their rights so that they can reach the legal system and avoid unnecessary harassment.
10. A child of a sex worker should not be separated from him solely on the basis that he is involved in the sex trade. If a minor is found in a brothel, it should not be assumed that it was brought through smuggling.

Out of the above instructions passed by the Supreme Court, the instructions related to points I, II, III, and V are relevant actions.

The instructions given by the Supreme Court are enforceable and obedient as a law under Article 142 of the Constitution.

Therefore, all of you are directed that during proceedings related to sex workers, strict compliance with the above instructions issued by the Supreme Court should be ensured. If an officer/employee is relaxed in complying with these instructions, punitive action will be taken against him as per rules.

Attachment: Yatopari

Sincerely,

(Vijay Kumar)
1 Police Commissioner
Commissionerate Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Agra, Ghaziabad, Prayagraj.
2 All Senior Superintendent of Police / Superintendent of Police,
District in charge / Railways, Uttar Pradesh
Copy: For information and necessary action for the following:
1 Special Director General of Police (Law and Order, Crime), U.P. Lucknow
2 Additional Director General of Police (Railways), U.P. Lucknow
3 Additional Director General of Police (Prosecution), U.P. Lucknow
4 Additional Director General of Police (Technical Services), U.P. Lucknow
5 All the zonal Additional Director General of Police, U.P.
6 All the Inspector General of Police / Deputy Inspector General of Police, U.P.