
Dr. Rajkumar Vishwakarma, DG Circular No. / 2023

I.P.S., Director General of Police,

Uttar Pradesh,
Headquarters, Director General of Police,
Lucknow - 226002,

Answer Date: 06 May 2023,

Subject: Regarding taking effective action under Section 174A of the Vicious Fugitive Mafia, district top-10 criminals.

Dear Sir/Madam,

The government has adopted a policy of zero tolerance against criminals in the state under which such criminals who have escaped after committing a crime and despite the court issuing orders and declaring them absconding, do not surrender before the court. They are trying to avoid the legal process. Instructions have been given to take strict action against them.

You are all aware that a new provision has been incorporated as Section 174A by the Penal Law Amendment Act of 2005, which has been released under Section 82 of D.P. No. This section declares a cognizable and non-bailable offense. After the enforcement of this section, in the past years, the prosecution of Section 174A has been registered against such absconding accused at the police stations, and after deliberations, charge sheets have also been sent to competent courts. However, due to prosecutors committing certain legal errors during investigations, the accused are often convicted.

As an example, in the Police Station Sayohara of the district, a prosecution was registered under Section 174A in 2016 (Case No. 166/2016). The case involved Section 302, 120B, and 34 B. In this case, neither the police station mentioned the fact in Tahrir when the court issued an order against the accused under Section 82. When it was entered in the GD of Thanh Sayohara, on which date, the prescribed manner was brought to its implementation.

During evidence compilation by the discretion of this case, neither any archival evidence was compiled in relation to the facts mentioned nor was the order issued by the court placed before the court. Due to non-proven archival evidence in the court, the court was converted by the court that the process of serving the process of Section 82 is being mentioned by the prosecution in its story. It is actually suspicious and by the court, the accused Munir was convicted by the charge of Section 174A.

The said case is being investigated in relation to Section 174A. For all investigators, it is like an opener for deliberations, despite all archival evidence present, the general error made by the plaintiff and the disciple is identified at a state level due to the general error made by the plaintiff and the disciple. The mafia was convicted by providing the benefit of doubt by the court.

What points are to be taken into account for registering a crime against an accused, investigating, and successful prosecution in the court under Section 174A of the No.? In relation to this, it is necessary to get acquainted with all disciples and supervision officers.

Section 174A of B.D. No. has been provided in the following form, which fails to appear on the specified place and time as per the requirement of any proclamation published under Section 82 (1) of D.P. By fines, or both will be punished, where a declaration has been made under the sub-section (4) of that section, in which he has been declared as an announced criminal, where the imprisonment will be punished for seven years.

It is clear from the study of Section 174A of B.D. No. that the said section is divided into two parts:

1. The first part pertains to criminals who are registered under this section due to their failure to appear in court as directed by the proclamation issued under Section 82 (1) D.P.

2. The second part pertains to criminals who have committed crimes and are declared announced by the court under Section 82 (1) D.P.

It is clear from the above interpretation that Section 174A applies to two types of criminals: first, those criminals who come in the first part mentioned in the stream; for such criminals, a provision of punishment of three years has been made in the said section. The second type is the criminal who is declared announced by the court and falls under the second part of the section; for these, a provision of imprisonment for seven years has been provided in the said section. The said stream is cognizable and non-bailable.

In order to register the prosecution under Section 174A of the No., cannot escape:

1. In the case, it should be ensured that the accused against whom the accused is being registered with Section 174A of the No. What efforts have been made in connection with the series of such non-bailable letters and they have been made in the GD and other relevant records of Indraj police station.

2. It should also be ensured that in the event of non-bailable officer not being served against the accused, an application was applied for the release of the announcement under Section 82 of D.P. No., on which date was issued by the competent court.

3. Order of Section 82 (1) D.P.

No further corrections were needed.