
DG Circular Number 2/2023

Vijay Kumar, Director General of Police,
IPS, Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Lucknow
Date: August 2023

Dear Sir/Madam,

It is known that on 07-08-2023 at Village Hetapatti under Police Station Tharavai of Commissionerate Prayagraj, at around 01:30 pm, four unidentified persons entered a clothing and jewelry shop house and attacked the home of the house owner, his wife, and brother. After attacking them with sticks, they were injured and looted jewelry and money. At the same time, the watchman was murdered with sticks, and his wife was injured.

The occurrence of the above nature has often been found to be carried out by members of the professional/nomadic Bavaria Kacha Vest gang. Circular necessary guidelines have been issued from the headquarters level from time to time to prevent such incidents; it is absolutely necessary to comply with them literally.

You will agree that when such an incident happens, on one hand there is a feeling of insecurity in the public, and on the other hand, there is resentment in the public towards the police. Therefore, it is necessary that the patrolling system should be effectively ensured, so that a sense of security is maintained, and such events can be curbed.

The following action is required to impose effective curb on the recurrence of such incidents:

It has often been seen that during the rainy and winter season, the activities of the nomad/Bavaria Kacha Vestant gangs increase, which carries out crimes of tax evasion and robbery in new settlements of towns, villages, and cities and houses built in solitude. Sometimes, gruesome violent incidents also occur.

During the rain, taking advantage of dark nights and deserted sites, robbery, cash theft, ATM theft, head cutting, power wire theft, and road holdups often lead to loss of life. Criminals easily succeed in committing such crimes. To curb such gruesome events, effective and practical action plans should be prepared from all police forces, personnel appointed on a gati vehicle, and gazetted officers.

After reviewing the events that occur in the past, the strong police management and planned gall system should be implemented by identifying hot-spots. Such areas of the district which can be sensitive or possible for such crimes should be patrolled regularly between 12:00 am to 04:00 am, especially on identified hot-spots.

Adequate numbers of patrolling vehicles should be installed on sensitive highways and strong police pickets should be installed at sensitive places. A sufficient number of police forces should be appointed in police stations and outposts for night patrolling. Hooter/siren/police lights etc. should be used effectively during gall checking.

In each district, village Mohalla security committees should be activated and patrolled with village chowkidars. Employees who patrol the night must have equipment, torch, whistle, etc. tools, which they should use during the patrol and employees should never be sent on patrol alone. Communication plans should be used effectively.

The police force in vehicles of Dial-112 should be specially briefed in this regard and their area should be reinstated as per the requirement.

Zonal checking scheme and patrolling system should be activated for night patrolling in the district. Every day, an officer should be given the responsibility to ensure the evaluation/review and checking of the patrolling system at night of each police station of the district.

Such incidents are more likely to occur in dark areas or deserted sites. For this, the provision given to upload photos in CCTNS should be used.

The personnel appointed in the local notification unit of each district should be encouraged to collect notifications about such criminals.

Special Task Force (STF) its field units