
DG Circular Number: 01/2023

Devendra Singh Chauhan

Director General of Police,

IPS,

Uttar Pradesh,

Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension,

Lucknow-226010,

Date: January 27, 2023,

Subject: Regarding compliance with courtesy/permissible protocol and courtesy performance towards Members of Parliament and State Legislature and other public representatives.

Dear Sir/Madam,

I would like to bring to your attention the importance of adhering to etiquette/permissible protocol against members and public representatives and to the prevailing arrangements for courtesy. With regard to etiquette/permissible protocol towards members, U.P., the government has issued mandates and instructions from time to time through this headquarters. It has come to our notice that there is a relaxation in compliance with these instructions.

In this regard, I would like to emphasize the need for quality performances by every police station, circle, district, zone, and police commissioner level. In the absence of proper demonstration of these dignitaries at the local level, complaints are made in the government and this headquarters. Due to these complaints, the image of the police is tarnished in the common people, and an inferior situation arises in front of senior officers.

The following type of action is expected to be taken:

1. Recording phone calls of people's representatives:
This complaint is being received that certain police officers and employees are recording and viral their phone conversations with members. This trend is not appropriate. Such activities by department officials promote unnecessary disputes towards the department through media/social media, etc., which is objectionable. Therefore, direct all subordinate personnel that police officers and employees should not record or viral phone calls during talks with members.

2. Display courteous behavior towards representatives of the people:
Every police station, circle, district, zone, and police commissioner level should display courtesy/honor under protocol with members and other public representatives with a seminar/meeting, during their visit, and while talking on the phone. Failure to do so is complained by them, and the department has to face adverse conditions which are worrisome. Therefore, all police personnel at every level should be displayed with proper etiquette as per the permissible protocol.

3. Name plaque should be put on their uniform by police personnel:
It has come to our notice that certain police officers and employees are not wearing name plaques on their uniforms. This is not compatible with prevailing rules, and this trend is also not good. Name plaques must be worn with uniforms set by all police officers and employees at all police stations, circles, districts, zones, and police commissioner level.

Therefore, you are directed to direct your subordinates to comply with the above instructions and ensure strict compliance.

(Devendra Singh Chauhan)

1. All Director General of Police, U.P.
2. All Zonal Additional Director General of Police, U.P.
3. All Additional Director General of Additional Police, U.P.
4. All Police Commissioner, U.P.
5. All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, U.P.
6. All Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police, In-charge District, U.P.