
Vijay Kumar
30th August 2023

DG Circular No.

IPS Director General of Police,

Uttar Pradesh |

Northern Region Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension,

Lucknow-226002

Date: 6th August 2023

Subject: Criminal Miss Bell Application No.0-9126/2023 In Jitendra vs. Uttar Pradesh and others, instructions passed by the High Court Allahabad in compliance with order dated 10.07.2023

Dear Sir/Madam,

You are aware that police officers/employees and witnesses are convened through summons warrants for evidence during trial by various courts. In these DG Circular No.56/2018 (24.10.2018), Dojo Circular Ra-46/2018 (24.08.2018), the ongoing trial process in the court is disrupted due to delay in summons/warrants. DG Circular No. 60/2015 (19.08.2015) For effective series of summons/warrants, instructions have been issued through various circulars mentioned in the bolts marked in the back from this headquarters level, but not being strictly complied with at the district level. Due to not being strictly complied with, the Hon'ble High Court has expressed unhappiness on many occasions.

Criminal Miss Bell Application No. 9126/2023 Jitendra vs. Uttar Pradesh and others, instructions passed by the High Court Allahabad in compliance with order dated 10.07.2023, which is issued for compliance:

(i) Additional Deputy Commissioner (Crime)/Sahara Deputy Commissioner (Crime)/Deputy Commissioner (Crime) and Additional Superintendent of Police (Crime)/Deputy Superintendent of Police (Crime) at the Commission level at the Commissionerate level to supervise the system of summons warrant issued by various courts will be nominated. The nodal officers will monitor the entire system of serving summons warrants in their commissioner/district and immediately resolve the problems faced by the courts.

(ii) Judicial summons cells are working under the direction of the Chief Judicial Magistrate for the summons of summons in every commissioner/district. The Commissioner of Police/Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police will review their districts and provide necessary police forces according to the employment in the judicial summons cell.

(iii) Adequate police force will be made available at the Commissionerate/district level to serve summons and warrants, and it will be ensured that the summary report will be presented before the court by the courts.

(iv) Weekly review of the status of summons/warrant by the nodal officer and the status of summons warrant in the monthly crime seminar will be reviewed by the Commissioner of Police/District Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police/District. Action will be taken against the personnel who are relaxed in summons/warrant as per rules.

(v) The report in relation to the Commissioner of Police/District Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police, Summons Warrant, which will also include numerical information, will present to the zonal Additional Director General of Police each month. Zonal Additional Additional Director General of Police, Commissioner of Police, Summons, will make the details of the proceedings taken in relation to the Warrant Tamil to this headquarters by the 7th of every month.

(vi) In the meeting of the Monitoring Cell to be held in the district, all the parties involved in the process of summons, such as the Public Prosecutor/Related Court Forensic Laboratories Physician, it will be included in and it will be essentially discussed.

Therefore, all of you are directed to ensure strict compliance of the instructions issued through the circular issued from this headquarters and the mandate issued from the government level in relation to the summons of summons warrant. In the future, if any case of laxity comes to cognizance in compliance with these instructions, then action will also be taken against the guilty personnel and the concerned supervision officers.

Enclosure



Sincerely,

(Vijay Kumar)

1. All Police Commissioners, Uttar Pradesh |

2. All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police/In-charge District/Railway, U.P.

Copy:

1. Visheep Director General of Police (Law and Order/Crime), Uttar Pradesh

2. Additional Director General of Police (Railways), Uttar Pradesh.

3. Additional Director General of Police (Prosecution), Uttar Pradesh

4. Additional Director General of Police (Technical Services), Uttar Pradesh

5. All zonal Additional Directors General of Police, Uttar Pradesh

6. All Regional Inspectors General of Police/Deputy Inspectors General, U.P.

Format- Summons of Witnesses:

K. No. Zone Area Kamri/District Show

At the end of the month of Tamil in the month received in the month

For the series of orders of orders

Total number of order

Number

Sapam

Waran