
DG Circular No. -1/2023

Dr. R. Of Vishwakarma,

IPS Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh |

Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension, Lucknow-226010

Date: April 2023

Necessary guidelines regarding opening/surveillance of criminals

Subject:

Dear Sir/Madam,

You are aware that Chapter 20 of the Uttar Pradesh Police Regulation, Para-228 to Para-276, pertains to the practice of practical and professional criminals and

1. DG Circular-37/2022 dated 03.11.2022: Provision to open a history sheet of Class B.
2. DG Circular -07/2019 dated 25.01.2019
3. A.D. Patra No.-DG-eight -140 (66) 2017, dated 03.11.2017: In connection with the opening of a history sheet of an accused, this day headquarters-level circular and semi-annual.
4. AD Patra No.-DG-eight-140 (66) 2014, dated 16.08.2014: Detailed instructions have been issued in the past through government letters.

The system related to opening a history sheet of criminals is described in Chapter 20 of the Police Regulation, according to which the confidential documents kept at police stations are a part of the Village Crime Register. According to Para-228 of the Police Regulation, Part-5 of the Village Crime Register will include a history sheet, which is a personal record of criminals under monitoring. A history sheet should be opened only by those who are unknown to practical criminals or such criminals, or they are likely to happen. There will be two classes of sheets:

1. Dacoits, sendmar, animal thieves, goods thieves from railway coaches, and Class-A for their ill effects (Class-A) History
2. Those strong and professional criminals who commit robbery, burglary, animal theft, and railway coaches, other crimes, professional deceit, and other experts for whom criminal individuals are maintained by the Crime Investigation Department, poison, animals, animalsPoisonor, railway passenger thieves, pocket experts, coding, coins, cocaine, and opium smugglers, noted crooks, and goons, telegraph wire cutting, interpreted liquor to emerge, and classes for their side effects (Class-3) History sheet

Both history sheets will be kept in the same format. However, for Class-B, the red line on the top of the first page will be marked by the Class-B history, and the history sheet will not be converted into a Class-A history sheet. Whether the person in the Class-B history sheet should be found involved in robbery, burglary, animal theft, or theft from railway goods. Monitoring for both Class-B and Class-C can be applied to it under Para-238. In the event of a person's history sheet being involved in various crimes, the superintendent's history will be converted into the Class-A history sheet.

Regarding the opening of a history sheet, the system given in Chapter 20 of the police regulation is not being strictly complied with, and a history sheet of an accused is being opened mentioning the crimes mentioned in Para-228 of the Police Regulation, and the history sheet of the accused is being opened and class. After 02 years of the history sheet of A, the review is also not being done according to Para-231 of the Police Regulation.

(2)

It is known that the history sheet of both classes has been classified under Para-228 of the Uttar Pradesh Police Regulation under the title of practical criminals and their side effects. The history sheet of Class-A describes dacoits, deeds, animals, rail coaches, other crimes, professional deceit, and other experts for whom criminal individuals are maintained by the Crime Investigation Department, poison, animals, animalsPoisonor, railway passenger thieves, pocket experts, coding, coins, cocaine, opium smugglers, noted crooks, and goons, telegraph wire cutting, interpreted liquor to emerge, and classes for their side effects. The history sheet of Class-B is a personal record of criminals under monitoring.

(3)

Hence, it is directed that various types of professional criminals, mafia, and such criminals who are organized by organized crimes, gangs