
Vijay Kumar, DG Circular No.-2/2023

IPS
Director General of Police,

Uttar Pradesh

Police Headquarters,
Gomti Nagar Extension,
Lucknow-226002

Date: August 4, 2023

Subject: Criminal Miss Bell Application No. 39643/2021 Shiva alias Shiv Kumar vs U.P.Ma in the state and others Regarding compliance with the order dated July 24, 2023, passed by the High Court of Allahabad.

Dear Sir/Madam,

Guidance Principle to ensure quality and effective deliberations on crimes. This DG Circular No.-2/2023, issued by the headquarters on June 15, 2023, has been issued through circulars, in which it is detailed how DG Circular No. 24/2020 (dated July 28, 2020), DG Circular No. 53/2019 (dated December 12, 2019), and DG Circular No.-01/2019 (dated January 22, 2019) were issued. The nuances will be taken into consideration.

Cases of negligence in the deliberation of serious crimes have also come to our notice, necessitating continuous instructions to issue quality deliberations from this headquarters level.

Criminal Miss Bell Application No. 39643/2021 Shiva alias Shiv Kumar vs U.P.Ma in the state and others During the hearing on July 24, 2023, by the court, we were instructed to express the following actions, expressing displeasure over the prescribed procedure regarding the prescribed proof, not to submit evidence with the charge sheet without attaching CCTV footage with the charge sheet:

The Learned Trial Court shall also disclose the facts as per IC Science Laboratory Report.

The Commissioner of Police, Agra Shall also file an affidavit in this regard.

In Case Such Evidence is not produced, the police authorities shall take appropriate action in accordance with law against the Investigation Officer without being influenced by observations made.

This court notices that in a number of cases, electronic and video evidence are not induced by the prosecution as per law. This inadequacy in investigation affects the prosecution case on a large scale.

The Director General of Police, Government of U.P., Lucknow, to ensure that approved directions are issued to police authorities as well as training models are organized for the same to ensure that such faults do not recur.

(2)

The High Court has commented in its order that in many cases, electronic and video evidence by the prosecution is not submitted before the court as per the prescribed procedure. It has also been mentioned by the court that the prosecution of the suit from deficiencies during deliberations affects the large scale. The High Court has ordered disciplines to conduct training of disciples and be made aware of the prescribed process to be used during investigation.

Therefore, all of you are directed to organize workshops at regular intervals to introduce the disciples of your Commissionerate/district with the nuances of deliberations, in which law experts, cybercrime computer experts, specialists from Forensic Laboratory should be invited. Those who can solve practical problems faced by the disciples during the workshop and resolve doubts.

Sincerely,

(Vijay Kumar)

1. All Police Commissioners, U.P.

2. All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police in-charge District Railway, U.P.

Copy:

1. All Director General of Police, U.P.

2. All Zonal Additional Director Generals of Police, U.P.

3. All Additional Directors General of Police, U.P.

4. All Inspector Generals of Police/Deputy Inspector Generals, U.P.