
Vijay Kumar DG Circular Number: 1/2023

Director General of Police,

IPS

Uttar Pradesh

Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension,

Lucknow-226010

Date: August 04, 2023

Subject: Relations regarding the nomination of guidelines given by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India for the control, maintenance, and review of guidelines given by the Government of India for control, maintenance, and review.

Dear Sir,

I would like to bring to your notice Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi's letter number: 22003/33/2019-140 dated 23.10.2020 regarding the need to effectively curb the increase in cyber crimes. As you may be aware, guidelines are issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs from time to time for supervision and investigation of cyber crimes, which require action at the district level.

Cybercrime Headquarters, UP, Lucknow serves as the nodal agency for cyber crimes in the state. In this regard, Cybercrime Headquarters issues seminars and guidelines, and gazetted officers are expected to participate in these seminars. However, Inspector/UN-ignorant of cyber crime by certain district-level officials are nominated for participation in the seminar due to a lack of expected information on cyber technology, which hinders proper implementation and monitoring of instructions at the district level.

In this regard, the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India has appointed all Police Commissionerates and District In-Charge officers as Public Nodal Officers Ex-officio. The gazetted officer of the district will be named Public Nodal Officer Ex-officio along with a cyber expert gazetted officer and inspector/UN-level officers (which can also be from the district cyber cell).

The main functions of the district nodal officer will be:

1. Operation and supervision of NCRPPortal at the district level.
2. Supervision of CSAM (Child Sexual Abuse Material).
3. NCMEC (National Center for Missing Exploited Children) Tipline Supervision.
4. Review of cooperation from cyber volunteers.
5. Implementation and monitoring of guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India.
6. Compliance and correspondence with instructions issued by Cybercrime Headquarters, UP.

I am confident that all district nodal officers will work with full enthusiasm to effectively curb cyber crimes.

Sincerely,

Vijay Kumar

All Additional Director General of Police, U.P. (By name)

Copy: The following is sent for information and necessary action:

1. All Police Commissioner, U.P.
2. All District Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police, U.P.