
DG Circular Number- 06/2023

Devendra Singh Chauhan
IPS, Director General of Police
Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Lucknow

Date: Lucknow, February 14, 2023

Subject: Uttar Pradesh Gangsterism Act 1986 (As Amended by the Prevention of Crime Amendment Act, 2015) and Uttar Pradesh Gangsterism and Anti-Social Rules 2021 - Guidelines

Dear Sir/Mahadev,

Uttar Pradesh Gangsterism and Anti-Social Rules-2021 Notification No. 5203/6-Pu-09202131 dated December 27, 2021, which is implemented with immediate effect. Complete compliance with the provisions of Rules 2021, Additional Director General of Police, Crime Uttar Pradesh letter number DG Seven S-14/09/2021 dated April 25, 2022 and letter number DG Seven S-14/09/2021 dated September 9, 2021, and DG Circular Number 40/2022 dated December 9, 2022 and DG Circular Number 20/2018 has been directed earlier by May 6, 2018.

In the commissioned districts of Uttar Pradesh state, the property acquired by the accused in order to proceed under the Gangster Act 1986 is attached under Section 141 of the Act. After the passage of attachment order under Section 141 of the Act, Section 161 of the Gangster Act has the following provision in relation to the proceedings where no representation is given within the specified period in sub-section (1) of the section or subsection (2) of the District Magistrate's report, reports do not eradicate the property under the report, where it will specify the case that the authorized court shall consider the crime under this Act with its custody.

Therefore, in order to obtain a quick order from the trial court regarding the attachment order, it is necessary that it should be ensured by coordinating with the concerned authorities that such letters should be referred to the court related to the District Magistrate's Office in a timely manner.

Section 17 of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsterism and Anti-Social Rules (Prevention Act 1986) has the following provisions related to the investigation by the Special Court: If the courts come to the conclusion on such an investigation that the property has come into the possession of the accused, if no crime was acquired as a result of any criminal activity, then he would order the property in favor of a person whose possession it was attached. In any other case, the court can give such an order to attach the property, acquire or get possession of property or dispose of it in other ways as he considers appropriate.

Under Section 217 of the Act, in relation to the proceedings in the Special Court Gangsterism Act, the Uttar Pradesh Gangsterism and Anti-Social Rules (Numerous Rules 2021), according to which the concerned Public Prosecutor during the investigation by the Special Court will provide an opportunity for the owner of the accused property to present the concerned records before the court and test the witnesses presented by him.

In view of the above, it is necessary to ensure that criminals who earn their livelihood through criminal activities are controlled, crime control, and gangs by criminal acts. In cases under the Gangster Act, 1986, where Section-141 of the Act has been passed by the District Magistrate after passing the order under the section, the relevant report and records should be effectively lobbied by providing it to the public prosecutor working in the court so that the accused property owners can present their arguments during the investigation. The arguments can be effectively opposed.

Therefore, all of you are directed to inform your subordinates about the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsterism and Anti-Social Rules 2021, especially those related to the attachment of assets earned from criminal activities under Section 217 of the Gangster Act. Regular reviews of all the cases under consideration in the special court should be made to ensure that orders are passed in favor of the state regarding the attached property so that the order to eradicate the attached property in favor of the state can be passed by the Hon'ble Court.

Ensure strict compliance with the above instructions.

Devendra Singh Chauhan
All Police Commissioner Uttar Pradesh
Deputy Inspector General of Police / Senior Superintendent of Police / Superintendent of Police,
In-charge district Uttar Pradesh

Copy sent to the following officers for information and necessary action:

1. Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, Uttar Pradesh Lucknow
2. Additional Director General of Police Crime, Uttar Pradesh Lucknow
3. Additional Director General of Police Human Rights, Uttar Pradesh Lucknow
4. Additional Director General of Police Railways, Uttar Pradesh Lucknow
5. All zonal Additional Director General of Police Uttar Pradesh
6. All Regional Inspector General of Police / Deputy Inspector General of Police Uttar Pradesh