
DG Circular Number: 0/2023

Director General of Police

Uttar Pradesh

Dear Officer,

Police Headquarters, Gomtinagar Expansion

Lucknow

Date: June 5, 2023

Subject: Miss Bell Application No. 30489/2022 Regarding Neeraj vs Uttar Pradesh and Others

Dear Sir/Madam,

Please make them aware that the Registrar HC/1763 (CR) of the High Court, Allahabad should take care to observe the attachment dated April 25, 2023, which is registered at the police station Sardhana district Meerut, MU No. 369/2016, Section 328/376/506, in relation to the Bell application presented under the Bhadvi and 3/4 POXO Act, regarding compliance with the instructions given by the Hon'ble High Court, Allahabad.

After discussion with Senior Superintendent of Police Meerut, who are living in a rented house, it was directed that if the informants/victims change their house, they will inform the police about this. They have been directed to get this matter resolved. In this regard, the consistent fraction of the order dated March 28, 2023 passed by the High Court is as follows:

Shri Rohit Singh Sajwan, Senior Superintendent of Police, Meerut has disclosed that he has discussed the matter with senior officers of the department in bail application No. 30489 of 2022, Neeraj vs State of UP, regarding general guidelines Regarding ID, Mobile Number, Aadhaar Number, and Undertaking of the informant and victim, who are living in a rented house. They should inform the Police Station concerned at the time of lodging an FIR and take other suitable steps to ensure the presence of the informant/victim before the trial court.

It is absolutely necessary to comply with the above-mentioned instructions by the Hon'ble High Court Allahabad. Therefore, all of you are directed that during deliberations, such informants/victims who are accommodated in a rented house, along with their current addresses, identity card, mobile number, Aadhaar number, and promissory note, will change their housing. In the case where the condition of the converted housing is made available to the police, attain the case diary during the investigation and take other appropriate steps to ensure the presence of the informant and victim during the trial court.

Please be sure to strictly comply with the above instructions.

Attachment:

Sincerely,
Vijay Kumar

1. All Police Commissioners, Uttar Pradesh
2. All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police/In-charge District/Railway, Uttar Pradesh

Copy sent to the following for information and necessary action:

1. Special Director General of Police, Law and Order, SIT, U.P.
2. Additional Director General of Police Prosecution/Railway, CBCID/A.T.S.
3. All Zonal Additional Director Generals of Police, Uttar Pradesh
4. All Inspector Generals of Police/Deputy Inspector Generals of Police, U.P.