
Devendra Singh Chauhan,

DG Circular No. 05/2023

Director General of Police,

Uttar Pradesh

Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension,

Lucknow-226010

Date: January 30, 2023

Subject: Regarding sending factual, relevant and legal reports on letter petitions in the High Court Allahabad and Lucknow Bench.

Dear Madam/Sir,

It is to be informed that at present large numbers of letter petitions are being presented in the High Court Allahabad and Lucknow Bench. The government is expected to provide reports on such letter petitions in a short time by law officials who prosecute on behalf of the government. Due to which, such reports are generally being sent directly by the police station, outpost-in-charge, lady-in-charge, and other sub-inspectors.

In the High Court, it has been informed by the law officials who defended the government that such facts are being included in the comments sent on letter petitions, which are neither factual nor relevant. Such inconsistent reports received from districts. On being presented before the court, there is a strong possibility of concluding opposite conclusions by the High Court.

It is also worth mentioning here that generally, letters petitions are a very serious subject only. The court takes cognizance of them. In such a situation, if factual and consistent reports related to the case are not available, the status of the law officials who favor the state becomes uncomfortable before the court, and there is a possibility of passing an opposite order.

Therefore, all of you are directed that the report on letter petitions should be prepared with full vigilance and incorporating factual information related to the case. The facts mentioned in the letter petition should be defeated on the basis of law and facts.

The report to be sent to the High Court will be duly approved and forwarded from the level of each Superintendent of Police. Prior to forwarding, the concerned officials will ensure that the report sent is relevant, innocent, and indispensable facts at all.

Sincerely

(Devendra Singh Chauhan)

Police Commissioner,
Commissionerate Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Agra, Ghaziabad, Prayagraj

All Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police,
District Railways in charge, Uttar Pradesh

Copy: For information and necessary action for the following:

1. All Director General of Police, U.P.
2. All zonal Additional Director General of Police, U.P.
3. All Additional Director General of Police, U.P.
4. All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General, Zone, U.P.