
DG-Parties No-2 8/2023

Vijay Kumar,

IPS
Director General of Police,
Uttar Pradesh

Police Headquarters, Tower 2,
Gomtinagar Extension,
Lucknow-226002

Date: Lucknow, August 10, 2023

Subject: Special Prayer Petition Kiminal No.2874/2023 W Kujur vs. in the state of Jharkhand. Necessary guidelines regarding compliance with the order dated July 17, 2023, passed by the Supreme Court.

Dear Sir or Madam,

It is to be informed that the above topic Assistant Registrar, Ma.The Supreme Court, New Delhi's letter dated July 24, 2023, Sadhana Special Petition Petition Kiminal No.2874/2023 W Kujur vs. in the state of Jharkhand.Instructions have been given to present the action report in compliance with the order dated July 17, 2023, passed by the Supreme Court.

2. MaThe following comments were made by the Supreme Court on July 17, 2023, during the hearing in the above special recitation petition related to the State of Jharkhand, expressing unhappiness regarding the charge sheet, expressing unhappiness about the sections related to the related sections:-

The Learned Counsel for the State of Jharkhand stated that Sections 34 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 Have Been Invoked Against the Petitioner Dablu Kujur.Having gone through the chargesheet, we must observe that it is bereft of any details and particulars.The Director General of Police (DGP), State of Jharkhand will examine where the said chargesheet is in accordance with law and if such chargesheets are in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. The DGP, State of Jharkhand will file an action report within a period of four weeks from today.

We are told that similar chargesheets bereft of details and particulars are being filed in the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.A copy of this Order will also be sent to the relevant DGPs for the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, who will submit their respective reports on the steps taken by them within

3. MaIt is becoming clear from the above order passed by the Supreme Court that Ma.The fact was brought to the notice of the Supreme Court that the chargesheets prepared in Bihar state and the state of Uttar Pradesh are also being presented without details etc.In four weeks, information about the steps taken by the relevant authorities will be submitted to the Supreme Court.

4. It is noteworthy that Ma.In the charge sheet presented in court, a brief description related to the prosecution and the instructions of the evidence compiled during deliberations, the instructions have been given by Circular No. 26/2022 dated January 1, 2022.

5. Hence all of you are directed that Ma.In view of the objection expressed by the Supreme Court, Ma.After marking the details etc. in the charge sheet presented in court, with complete details, Ma.The charge sheet should be sent to the court.In this regard, all gazetted officers/police in-charge/investigative officers of the district are directed to provide copies of the order passed by the Supreme Court and ensure compliance with the order given by the Supreme Court strictly.If any officer/employee is relaxed in complying with these instructions, then punitive strict action should be taken against them as per rules.

Attachment: Yatopari |

Sincerely,

Vijay Kumar

1. All Police Commissioners, Uttar Pradesh
2. All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police in-charge District/Railways, Uttar Pradesh

Copy-Nimn sent for information and necessary action:
4. Special Director General of Police Law and Order/Crime, U.P., Lucknow
2. Special Director General of Police Economic Offenses Research Organization, U.P., Lucknow
3. Additional Director General of Police CBCID, U.P., Lucknow
4. Additional Director General of Police Railways, U.P., Lucknow
5. Additional Director General of Police Prosecution, U.P., Lucknow
6. All zonal Additional Directors General of Police, U.P.
7. All the Director Generals of Police/Deputy Inspectors General of Police, U.P.