
Headquarters
Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh

Police Bhawan, Gomtinagar Extension, Lucknow - 226002

Number: DG Circular Number: 7 Date: June 2, 2023 (Lucknow)

To,

All Heads of Department/Office,
Police Department, Uttar Pradesh

Subject:- Regarding the conversion of the original residence of non-gazetted police officers/employees of Uttar Pradesh at the time of recruitment.

Please be informed that your letter MZ-31 (Home District) dated May 11, 2023, by Additional Director General of Police, Meerut Zone, Meerut, Circular Number: 63/2018 of December 18, 2018, which aims to have a column for residence on the retirement page. It has been requested to issue appropriate guidelines to ensure.

The following instructions are issued after considering the above-mentioned relationship:

(1) After obtaining permission from the Uttar Pradesh government for the change of home district declared at the time of recruitment of any officer/employee, the name/designation and date made will be clearly signed, along with the concerned character Panjika Clerk, with a clear signature date, and approved.

(2) The address of the original home district declared at the time of recruitment of any officer/employee will not be deleted, but the address of the original home district declared at the time of recruitment and the address of the revised home district will be clearly mentioned in the character register.

(3) The declared address of the new place for the property earned by a personnel or other reasons can be found in LTC, as a result of traveling in government work or in other benefits. However, due to the change of permanent address (Home Town), the personnel cannot get it in its transfer, etc.

Mandatory: As per the provision mentioned in the Uttar Pradesh Government's notification dated December 2, 1964, only native candidates of Uttar Pradesh are provided with the benefits of reservation for SC/ST and other category candidates. The benefits of reservation are not payable to candidates from other states. If a police personnel has been recruited by receiving the benefit of reservation by submitting the address of the home district of the home district and the address of the original home district declared after recruitment has been changed and the address of another state, he cannot get the benefit of the address change because he has got the benefit of reservation on the basis of the declared original district of Uttar Pradesh at the time of recruitment.

Therefore, it is requested that all non-gazetted officers/employees are informed about the above rules/instructions and bother to ensure it strictly so that there is no doubt in future.

Victory

Director General of Police,
Uttar Pradesh