
Devendra Singh Chauhan, DG Circular Number-01/2023

IPS Director General of Police,

Uttar Pradesh

Police Headquarters, Lucknow

Date: January 03, 2023

Subject: Guidelines for Crime Control during Autumn Season and Night Fog

Dear Sir/Madam,

You are aware that during the autumn season, there is a significant reduction in public movement on streets, especially on nights of cold fog. In this season, there is a possibility of stroller criminal gangs committing sensational crimes. Such incidents often occur in outer areas of cities, towns, and rural regions.

Referring to DG Circular Number-01/2021 dated 01.01.2021, you will agree that this type of incident has been recurring. On the one hand, there is fear of insecurity prevailing, while on the other hand, resentment towards the police prevails. Therefore, it is essential that the patrol system should be effectively ensured in this season so that the public feels secure and such incidents can be curbed.

The following action is required to impose effective curb on crime that occurs during this type of night:

During winter, visibility is reduced due to fog at night, which provides an advantage to wandering gangs of stroller bawaris/briefs vests and robbers. There are often losses of life. Such gruesome events should not happen; therefore, a practical action plan should be prepared at the Commissionerate district, enclosure, and zone level, and all police forces, patrol vehicle-appointed personnel, gazetted officers should be done properly.

While reviewing past events, strong police management and planned patrol systems should be implemented by identifying hotspots at the district/zone and zone levels.

Areas of the district which can be sensitive to such crimes should be especially patrolled between 12:00 pm and 04:00 AM. Adequate numbers of patrolling vehicles should be installed for patrolling sensitive highways. Strong police pickets should be installed at sensitive places. A sufficient number of police forces should be appointed in police stations and outposts for night patrolling. Hooter, siren, flash lights should be used effectively during patrolling.

Zonal checking schemes and patrolling systems should be activated for night patrolling in each district. Every day, an officer should be designated to review the previous day's activities and take necessary action. The remaining cases should be reviewed, and concrete actions should be taken on all pending deliberations.

Ensure that effective advocates are ensured against criminals involved in such sensational heinous crimes in courts under consideration. Their guarantors should be found and verified as per rules, and bail disposal and legal action of the accused criminals should be taken.

The Special Task Force (STF) activates its field units as per the above, keeping a special campaign by keeping a vigilant vigil on the stroller bawaris/kacha vesthari gang criminals and coordinating with the essential masses should be ensured by establishing coordination with the district police.

The above guidelines are only for general guidance; in addition to this, you are free to take other necessary steps towards crime control based on criminal and geographical conditions of your districts.

It is expected from all of you to study the above points seriously and conduct a workshop to make all officers and employees appointed in the district aware of these instructions in detail and alert them regarding this. Do not take any kind of negligence or apathy in the discharge of your duties.

Ensure strict compliance with the above instructions.

Sir,

Devendra Singh Chauhan

All Police Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh

All Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police,

In-charge district, Uttar Pradesh

Copy sent to officers for information and necessary action:

1. Additional Director General of Police, Crime, U.P., Lucknow
2. Additional Director General of Police, Railways/UP 112, U.P., Lucknow
3. Additional Director General of Police, STF, U.P., Lucknow
4. All zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
5. Inspector General of Police, U.P., Lucknow
6. All Inspector General of Police, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh