
Vijay Kumar
242023

Kumar, DG Circular No.:


IPS Director General of Police,

Uttar Pradesh |

Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension,

Lucknow-226010

Date: July 26, 2023

Subject: Bail Application Number-19021/2023 Bhupendra Wafar vs. Uffer vs. In compliance with the order dated May 26, 2023, the guidelines regarding marking full criminal history of the accused under the Uttar Pradesh Gangism and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act in compliance with May 26, 2023.

Dear Sir/Madam,

During the proceedings against the accused under the Uttar Pradesh Gangism and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, the accused:

1. DG Seven S-14 (09)/2021: Complete and flawed criminal history dated June 1, 2022, Uttar Pradesh.
2. Dated April 25, 2022: Anti-Social Activity (Prevention) Rules, 2021.

3. DG Circular No. 0-40/22: In relation to the compliance of the provisions of December 9, 2022, circulars issued from this headquarters level have been sent out, but these instructions are not being strictly complied with at the commissionerate district level.

During the hearing on May 26, 2023, in the above-dated May 26, 2023, Miss Bail application number-19021/2023. Only one criminal prosecution has been shown against the accused. The following remarks have been made by the High Court, objecting to this discrepancy:

It is apparent from gang chart that only one case is shown against the applicant, however, criminal history of 29 cases are disclosed by the application. It is highly objectionable that only one case is shown against the present application in gang chart, whereas more than 29 cases are disclosed against the application. It is also noticed that in many of the cases, while preparing the gang chart, all the cases lodged against the gangster are not disclosed in the gang chart. It goes to show that Criminal History is not properly maintained by Concerned Police Station and later on when the bail application is moved, the criminal history is revealed by the Learned Advocate. It is a serious matter of concern.

Let this letter be sent to the DGP in this region to direct the SSP/SOs of all districts to maintain proper criminal history of the accused in police stations concerned.

Uttar Pradesh Gangism and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Rules, 2021, Notification No. 5203/six-Pu0-9-2021, dated December 27, 2021, which is applicable with immediate effect, In which a clear and specific arrangement has been given to prepare the gang chart and mark the criminal history of the accused, which is the guide to comply.

Due to non-availability of the accused before the High Court, the entire and erratic criminal history of the accused, the status of law officials who submit the state's side before the court is uncomfortable, and the accused are successful in getting bail from the court by getting the benefit of these discrepancies.

Therefore, all of you are directed that in view of the above objections expressed by the Hon'ble High Court, the Uttar Pradesh Gangism and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Rules, 2021 will ensure to mark the entire and erratic criminal history of the accused. Regarding the marking of criminal history, strict compliance with the circulars and instructions issued from this headquarters level should be ensured; if an officer or employee is relaxed in compliance with these instructions, then strict action should be taken against him as per rules.

Sincerely,

(Vijay Kumar)

Police Commissioner, Commissionerate-Lucknow/Kanpur/Varanasi/Gautam Buddha Nagar/Agra/Ghaziabad/Prayagraj

All Senior Superintendent of Police, Superintendents of Police, In-charge District Railway Officers, Uttar Pradesh.

Copy: For information and necessary action:

1. Special Director General of Police (Law and Order/Crime), Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
2. Special Director General of Police, Economic Offenses Branch, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
3. Additional Director General of Police, CBCID, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
4. Additional Director General of Police, Railways, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
5. Additional Director General of Police (Prosecution), Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
6. All zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
7. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Inspector General of Police