
Vijay Kumar,
DG Circular No. -3/2023
IPS, Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension, Lucknow-226002
Date: August 7, 2023
Subject: Criminal appeal no(s) 2207 of 2023 arising out of special leave petition (Crl. No. 3433 of 2023) Mo. Decision passed in Ashfaq Alam vs Jharkhand State and others dated 31.07.2023 guidelines

Dear Sir/Madam,

You are aware that, in the process adopted before the arrest of the accused, Section 41A DG Circular No. 41/2014 Dated 17.06.2014 instructions have been issued by the Supreme Court through various circulars mentioned in the box from this headquarters level to comply with the instructions passed by the Supreme Court.

DG Circular No.-07/2023 Dated 16.02.2023

Criminal appeal no(s) 2207 of 2023 arising out of special leave petition (Crl. No. 3433 of 2023). In the above, The Supreme Court has issued the following instructions regarding the procedure adopted before the arrest of the accused through its decision dated 31.07.2023:

Before parting, the court would direct all the courts ceasing proceedings to strictly follow the law laid down in Arnesh Kumar (Supra) and reiterate the directions contained there.

Our endeavour in this judgment is to ensure that police officers do not arrest the accused unnecessarily and magistrates do not authorise detection casually and mechanically. In order to ensure what we have observed above, we give the following directives:

1.1. ALL STATE Governments shall instruct their Police Officers not to automatically arrest when a case under Section 41 CRPC arises;
1.2. ALL Police Officers shall be provided with a checklist containing specified sub-clauses under Section 41 (1) (B) (ii);
1.3. The police officer shall forward the checklist duly filled and furnish reasons and materials which negatived the arrest, while producing the accused before the Magistrate for further;
1.4. The magistrate, while authorising detection of the accused, shall peruse the report furnished by the police officer in terms thereof and only after recording its satisfaction, the magistrate will get authorise detection;
1.5. The decision not to arrest an accused should be forwarded to the magistrate within two weeks from the date of institution of the case with a copy to the superintendent of police (may be extended by the superintendent of police of the district);
1.6. Notice of appearance in terms of Section 41-A CRPC shall be served on the accused in writing;
1.7. Failure to comply with the directives above shall, apart from rendering the police officers concerned liable for departmental action, also make them liable to be punished for contempt;
1.8. Authorising detection without recording reasons as aforesaid by the judicial magistrate concerned shall make the judicial magistrate liable for departmental action by the appropriate authority.

2. We hasten to add that directives above shall not only apply to the case under Section 498-A IPC or Section which may be less than seven years or which may extend to seven years, whether with or without fine.

3. The High Court shall frame the above directions in the form of notifications and guidelines to be followed by the Sessions Courts and all other criminal courts dealing with different offences.

4. Likewise, the Director General of Police in All States shall ensure that strict instructions in terms of the above directions are issued. Both the High Courts and the DGPs of all states shall ensure that such guidelines and departmental circulars are issued for the guidance of all lower courts and police authorities in each state within eight weeks.

5. Affidavits of Compliance shall be filed before this court with ten weeks by all the states and high courts, through their registrars.

Mother. The decision passed by the Supreme Court is attached with the shadow of 31.07.2023 with a circular and sent with the instructions to make it aware of your subordinates while studying this judicial decision itself and in the process to be adopted before the arrest of the accused.. The instructions given by the Supreme Court should be strictly complied with.

Attachment: Yatopari

Sincerely,
(Vijay Kumar)

Corrected list:

For information and necessary action:
1. Special Director General of Police (Law and Order, Crime), U.P., Lucknow
2. Additional Director General of Police (Railways), U.P., Lucknow
3. Additional Director General of Police (Prosecution), U.P., Lucknow
4. Additional Director General of Police (Technical Services), U.P., Lucknow
5. All the zonal Additional Director General of Police, U.P.
6. All the Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, U.P.