
DG Circular Number 2023

Vijay Kumar
Director General of Police,
IPS, Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Lucknow

Date: Lucknow, August 4, 2023

Dear Sir/Madam,

Effective prevention of crimes is a very important task and a high priority for the police. A secure atmosphere must be established among common citizens in the state through strong policing. For this, it is necessary that night patrolling should be done more effectively, so that the feeling of faith in the public can be strengthened.

Often, the activation of criminal elements increases at night, leading to incidents of murder, robbery, theft, and crimes against women, which have adverse effects on the general public. To curb such incidents, it is expected that effective action will be taken by increasing police activism at night.

The guidelines for further strengthening the patrol system/picket/vehicle patrolling, etc., for the prevention of such incidents are:

Upon analyzing the events that occurred in all district commissioners of the state at the headquarters level, it was found that more incidents occur at night before the Amavasya Tithi of Krishna Paksha, the dark side of the Hindu calendar. This analysis should be done every month at the level of senior police officers.

According to the Hindu calendar, every month, the date of the Amavasya of the dark side Krishna Paksha should be identified. For example, Amavasya Tithi is on the 16th in August, 14th in September, and 14th in October. A copy of the Hindu calendar is attached for reference.

The information obtained from CCTNS and Dial-112 regarding incidents described in the crime titles mentioned in the night before the date of Amavasya and after one week should be matched/crime mapping. Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police, In-Charge District/Police Commissioner, should prepare an action plan by identifying hot spots in their respective districts/commissionerates.

Similarly, according to crime mapping in all police stations in the state, the action plan should be prepared by identifying hot spots at the police station level. According to crime mapping of incidents in the district/commissionerate, Additional Director General of Police, Technical Services, U.P., will prepare SOPs and make them available to all districts/commissionerates.

In the hot-spot areas identified in the district/commissionerate, a week before the Amavasya Tithi of each month and after one week, adequate police personnel should be deployed while further strengthening effective patrol/picket/vehicle patrolling, etc., at night.

Adequate numbers of patrolling vehicles should be installed on sensitive highways for night patrolling. Sensitive places should be divided into zone clusters and patrolled by putting adequate police forces.

Duty patrol personnel for night patrol/picket/vehicle patrolling regularly by the police station in-charge/night officer/chief constable (Head Moharrir) from the place/time of the incident in the area/time of the incident, and how to commit the incident by criminals, etc. Briefs should be done properly.

In every district/commissionerate, village/mohalla security committees should be activated and patrolled with village chowkidars.

According to crime mapping, the routes of Dial-112 vehicles should be reinstated as per crime mapping of incidents in the district/commissionerate.

Efforts should be made to curb incidents by establishing coordination with the village head and elite persons of Gram/Mohalla. Action should be taken to install street lights on deserted and dark places.

Action should be taken to install private chowkidars in city and rural areas with public cooperation, and arrangements should be made to install CCTV cameras on major intersections/roads of identified places.

In the city and rural areas, the duty of a jurisdiction should be imposed every day for checking police personnel engaged in night patrol/picket/vehicle patrolling. Additional Superintendent of Police will visit patrol/picket/vehicle patrolling, etc., and perform regular supervision.

Zonal patrolling system and checking scheme should be implemented at least two or three times a week for night patrolling. You should also ensure that your subordinate gazetted officers and police in-charge are apprised in detail and apply.

Enclosure

Sincerely,

Vijay Kumar

All Police Commissioners, Uttar Pradesh.
All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police, Districts in Charge, Uttar Pradesh.

Copy to the following:

Sent for North and necessary action:
1. Special Director General of Police, Law and Order Crime, Uttar Pradesh.
2. Additional Director General of Police, Dial-112, Uttar Pradesh.
3. Additional Director General of Police, Technical Services, Uttar Pradesh.
4. Additional Director General of Police, Railways, Uttar Pradesh.
5. All zonal Additional Directors General of Police, Uttar Pradesh.
6. All Inspector Generals of Police/Deputy Inspector Generals of Police, Uttar Pradesh.