
R.K.Vishwakarma Circular Number: 3 (2023)

Director General of Police,
I.P.S., Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Gomtinagar Expansion
Lucknow - 226010

Date: April 7, 2023

Subject: Necessary Guidelines Regarding the Proceedings Related to Letters Rogatory, Mutual Legal Assistance Requests on Citizens and Citizens Residing Abroad Who Commit Crimes.

Dear Sir/Madam,

It is often seen that after criminals commit a crime, the tendency to flee abroad is increasing. For this reason, the Ministry of Home Affairs has developed an MLAT Portal by which summons, notices, decisions related to judicial proceedings on citizens residing abroad can be taken online through the portal for letters rogatory and criminal cases.

2- The Inspector General of Police, Crime, has been named Interpol Liaison Officer (ILO) at the state level for action on all such cases. The User ID has been generated by ILO by nominating a Deputy Commissioner and District In-Charge at all Commissionerate/district levels by naming a Controlling Officer (CO), whose password will be the same as their Email ID. The User ID of all police stations/ deliberation branches of the district will be created by the Controlling Officer (CO). An online proposal will be sent by the Investigating Officer (IO) through these IDs.

The process to create an Investigation Officer's Profile on the MLAT Portal is as follows:

- Portal links to log in on the MLAT Portal will use https://mlat.mha.gov.in.
- The CO login panel will be displayed after logging in with Login Credentials of Controlling Officer (CO).
- Click on the User Management option on the CO login panel, and the "Create User" option will be displayed.
- On clicking on the "Create User" option, the form for creating an IO Profile will be displayed, which will be created by the Investigation Officer (Initiating Officer/IO).

According to the above, interpol-related proceedings such as summons, notices, and other judicial documents, etc. will be edited only through the MLAT Portal (https://mlat.mha.gov.in). User manual guidelines displayed on the dashboard of the portal can be observed for detailed information.

3- In addition to the above, it is worth noting that in cases related to the arrest of accused living abroad by committing a crime and a non-bailable warrant (NBW) being issued. The extradition process is adopted. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Government of India has issued a guideline/guide on preparing extradition requests, which are available on their website https://mea.gov.in/extradition-guidelines.htm.

Therefore, in such cases, according to the guidelines and guidelines available on the said referenced website, the formal proposal/request letter for extradition of the accused should be sent to the Inspector General of Police Crime, Nodal Officer Interpol for further action. Regarding preparation of extradition request, Director General of Police, U.P., has compiled letters/guidelines/guides of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India and sent earlier with a circular number 5/2020 dated January 28, 2020, in which the complete process of extradition request is available.

4- Therefore, it is expected from you that by studying the User Manual/Guidelines available on the said portal of the Ministry of Home Affairs, accordingly, create the profile of the subordinate Investigation Officer (Initiating Officer/IO) and guide them properly and complete the interpolistic proceedings. Make sure. In case of extradition, the formal extradition proposal will be sent to the Inspector General of Police Crime, Nodal Officer Interpol in the prescribed format as per the predetermined procedure.

If there is any difficulty on MLAT Portal, the Interpol Cell of the Crime Branch can be contacted on CUG no.-9454405114.

Sincerely,

R.K.Vishwakarma

All Police Commissioners, Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police
District In-Charge/Railways, Uttar Pradesh

Copy: The following is sent for information and necessary action as per the above:
1- All Director General of Police, Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
2- All Zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
3- All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
4- Deputy Inspector General of Police, ANTF, Uttar Pradesh