
DG Circular Number 1/2024

Prashant Kumar

IPS Director General of Police,

Uttar Pradesh

Headquarters Director General of Police Uttar Pradesh

Signature Building, Lucknow

Date: April 5, 2024, Lucknow

Dear Sir/Madam,

You are required to inform them that the case of missing or missing children is a serious matter. In the context of deliberations on prosecutions related to missing children, guidelines have been issued from this headquarters level. In the context of the prosecutions related to missing children, in the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules 2019. Prior to these circulars and rules, the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHU) varied at the point of age of children in relation to transfer, which it is necessary to amend.

Regarding the investigation of missing children, instructions were issued as follows in Circular Number 12/2013 of Director General of Police Uttar Pradesh, dated April 11, 2013:
All those cases where children from 03 years to 08 years are not recovered for four months, their investigations will be transferred to the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHU) installed under the district crime branch. The Superintendent of Police (Crime) will ensure that those investigations are made under their near supervision.

On the basis of the above circular, in the event of a missing prosecution of a child from 03 to 08 years, the case registered in 35 districts of the state in connection with the transfer of the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHU) established in 35 districts of the state. Circular Number 8/2016 of Director General of Police Uttar Pradesh, dated February 16, 2016, instructed that the jurisdiction be determined to ensure the recovery of the children concerned and to ensure the disposal of the prosecution.

In this context, instructions were issued by the Director General of Police in Another Circular Number 32/2018 of Uttar Pradesh, dated June 21, 2018, as follows:

All those cases where children from 03 years to 08 are not recovered for four months, their investigation will be transferred to the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHU) installed under the district crime branch. The Additional Superintendent of Police/Deputy Superintendent of Police (Crime) will ensure that those investigations are made under supervision.

It is noteworthy that in Rule 92(5) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules 2019, a provision has been made as follows in relation to the investigation of missing children:
Where the child cannot be discovered within a period of four months, the investigation of the case will be transferred to the anti-human trafficking unit of the district, which will send a report to the District Legal Services Authority about the progress made in investigation every three months.

There is a provision to transfer cases of missing children from 03 to 08 years in the three circles mentioned as mentioned by the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU), while juvenile justice (care and protection of children) Rules 2019 is silent on the age limit. The word "child" is mentioned in the provisions related to the transfer of the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHU) of children-related discussions. It is known that in Section 2(12) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015, a child means a person whose eighteen years of age has not been completed. Thus, there is a variation in the provisions contained in the above-issued circulars and rules, which leads to confusion, which is being amended as per juvenile justice (care and protection of children) Rules 2019.

Therefore, where the child (below 18 years of age) cannot be discovered within a period of four months, the investigation of the case will be transferred to the anti-human trafficking unit of the district, which will send a report to the District Legal Services Authority about the progress made in investigation every three months.

Only this point of the above-mentioned circulars is being revised as per Rule 7. Apart from this point, all other points will remain effective.

I expect that you will ensure compliance by informing the officers/employees about the above instructions at the district level.

Sincerely,

Prashant Kumar

To:

All Police Commissioner/Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police in-charge District/GRP, Uttar Pradesh

Copy: For information and necessary action for the following

1. Director General of Police, Law and Order/Crime Women and Child Safety

2. Additional Director General of Police, Organization/Tech Servings/Government Railway Police Uttar Pradesh

3. All Zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh

4. All Inspector General of Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General, U.P.

5. Superintendent of Police State Crime Records Bureau Uttar Pradesh