
Corrected Passage:

Ghaziabad has submitted his report, informing that video conferencing facility is available in the court concerned.

He has also provided details of various instructions being issued by him to judicial officers for effective implementation of the rules for video conferencing for courts in the state of Uttar Pradesh, 2020. One point noted in the aforementioned report pertains to the fact that the prosecution is not requesting evidence be led through video conference.

5. The Central Project Co-ordinator (CPC) has also submitted his report, stating that the facility for video conferencing has been established in the District Court, Ghaziabad, and all courts of the state of Uttar Pradesh. The CPC has submitted data on recording evidence through video conferencing, which requires attention from the District Judge, Ghaziabad. Smaller districts have secured more evidence through video conferencing.

The report further states that the facility is available in Ghaziabad, a district in the National Capital Region, and it is required to be more proactive in implementation of the rules for video conferencing for courts in the state of Uttar Pradesh, 2020.

6. Sri Ashok Mehta, Learned Senior Advocate and Additional Advocate General for the state of UP, has stated that the state is ready to extend all cooperation for recording evidence through video conferencing. He submits that the Director-General of Police is also taking steps in this matter, so that the rules for video conferencing for courts in the state of Uttar Pradesh, 2020 are implemented in letter and spirit.

He further agrees that Government servants, including police officers and doctors whose evidence are to be recorded, will endeavour to secure the same through video conferencing in pursuance of the rules for video conferencing for courts in the state of Uttar Pradesh, 2020. He submits that the prosecution will take a proactive role for recording of evidence through video conferencing where officers of the state are posted outside the jurisdiction of the court concerned.

It is further assured to the court that endeavour would be made by the officers and the Director-General of Police to hold a meeting with the Commissioner of Police, Senior Superintendent of Police, and Superintendent of Police in this respect. This will enable the prosecution to move to the court concerned for recording of evidence through video conferencing, in response to the Government servants who are posted outside the district where the case is going on.

7. The Director-General of Police shall take necessary steps in respect of evidence through video conference in respect of prosecution witnesses who are posted outside the district where the cases are going on and in this respect, necessary orders shall be issued.

The Senior Superintendent of Police and Superintendent of Police shall ensure that applications are filed before the court concerned for recording of evidence through video conferencing in respect of the witnesses and Government servants who are posted outside the district where the cases are going on. The Director of Prosecution shall also take necessary steps in this respect.

A coordinated effort shall be made by the state, police authorities, and Director of Prosecution so that there is minimal movement of Government officers from one district to another for the purpose of recording evidence in cases and to ensure that evidence are recorded through video conferencing. The fact that the infrastructure for rules for video conference for courts in the state of Uttar Pradesh, 2020 has been established from the State exchequer and is for the benefit of the prosecution witnesses and private parties who are parties to the litigation and residing outside the jurisdiction of the court concerned.

The Government servants are also beneficiaries of the afore-mentioned rules for video conferencing for courts in the state of Uttar Pradesh, 2020 when posted outside the district where the case is going on.

8. It is further clarified that the court concerned may direct for personal presence of witnesses if required, but endeavour should be made to get evidence recorded through video conferencing from prosecution witnesses who are outside the jurisdiction of the court.

9. A compliance report shall be filed by the State Director-General of Police and Director of Prosecution in this respect.

10. List this case on 18.04.2024 as fresh, and treat it as part heard and tied up to the present bench.

Order Date: - 9.4.2024

TMA