
Corrected Passage:

More than one prosecution has been registered and the investigation has increased in paperwork and the invaluable time of the Hon'ble Courts has also been destroyed in the disposal of these cases. For multiple trials, the same witnesses have wasted unnecessary time and resources in repeated coming to the court.

The following instructions are issued for compliance regarding the separate First Information Report (FIR) on the basis of the same incident or transaction in light of the instructions issued by the Supreme Court and legal system:

1. The FIR should not be registered regarding illegal weapons used in committing a crime under Section 227 of the Evidence Act on the behest of the accused. According to the seizure on the spot of the accused, the relevant sections should be increased by discretion.

2. During police proceedings, if stolen or robbed vehicles or other items are recovered from the accused, it should be tried to find any relations with the recovered vehicle or item in other police stations of the district. No FIR is registered at such police stations. On receiving this information, the prosecution on the basis of seizures should be presented for the theft of the registered prosecution and presented by the prosecuting officer.

3. If more than one accused is arrested and each accused has seizures of illegal items, then a separate FIR should not be registered against each accused, but a single FIR based on seizure of Fard (property) While registering, the charge sheet should be sent to the court in relevant sections on the basis of the recovery of the accused, in which every accused should clearly mention the relevant and specific section related to the recovery and seizure.

4. If more than one accused is arrested simultaneously by the police and illegal drugs are recovered from the accused, then a Fard of drug seizures should be prepared in which clear and specific details including the quantity of recovery from the accused should be mentioned. On the basis of this seizure, the same FIR should be registered against all the accused and the same charge sheet should be sent to the court after deliberations.

5. On the basis of incidents that occur in the same incident or transaction, more than one FIR should not be registered, but proceedings should be done by incorporating other applications received in relation to the above.

6. Only one complaint is made by submitting separate applications by the two parties involved in a case, then on the basis of these applications, separate cross FIRs can be registered. Based on the same incident, the cross FIR registered will be discussed by the same discretion and it will also be ensured that they are tried simultaneously.

7. In any case other than the above specific illustrations, if it appears that the application submitted to register the FIR is based on the same incident or transaction and prosecution in this regard has been registered in the past, then while testing the entire episode thoroughly, it should be ensured that more than one FIR is not registered on the basis of the same incident or transactions.

8. If any other crime is caused by evidence compiled during deliberation, then discussion will be done by increasing the streams coordinated by discretion and either the same charge sheet will be presented for all the prosecutions or supplements as required. The charge sheet will be presented.

Therefore, it is directed that you should study the above-referenced judicial decisions and the instructions mentioned in this circular for their compliance and organize a workshop, inform gazetted officers, police stations, prisoners appointed in the Commissionerate district, and provide a copy of this circular. Caution them to not take any kind of negligence, apathy, or relaxation in the discharge of their obligations.

In future, if any case of violation of these instructions comes to the notice of this headquarters, then, in addition to the policemen concerned, strict punitive action will be taken against the supervision officers as per rules.

Be sure to strictly comply with the above instructions.

Sincerely,

(Vijay Kumar)

To:

All Zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh: You should organize a seminar in your supervisory districts and train all gazetted officers and other personnel in detail and make sure to provide this headquarters with a report within a month.

All Police Commissioners, Commissionerate, U.P.

For all the Inspector General of Police, Deputy Inspector General of Police, UP: For compliance.

All Senior Superintendent of Police, Superintendent of Police, In-Charge District, Railways, U.P.: For compliance.

Copy: For information and necessary action for the following:

* Director General of Police, CBCID, SIT, Cooperative Cell, Uttar Pradesh Lucknow.
* Additional Director General of Police, Prosecution, Railways/ATS/STF, Uttar Pradesh.
* Deputy Inspector General of Police, Anti Narcotics Task Force, U.P.