
DG Circular Number: 35
2023

Vijay Kumar
Director General of Police
IPS, Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Lucknow
Date: September, 2023
Lucknow

Dear Sir/Madam,

Criminal incidents are carried out by gangs/professional criminals like robbery, theft, chain snatching, etc., along with Kacha-Banianhari/Nomadic Bavaria gangs in various commissioner/districts of the state. Such criminals often leave their permanent bases and live in another city or town to divert the attention of the local police from them. Sometimes these criminals sell small household items, toys, etc., or change costumes, move around, and identify the crime committed by them and the circumstances. They commit crimes according to their own interests.

After the incident, these criminals often leave one place and move to another. Small vehicles are also used by these criminals in some incidents. In case of such crimes, it is difficult for local police officers to complete statutory action successfully by correctly identifying the criminals involved in the incidents.

The following action is required to be taken to effectively curb such professional criminals and crimes:

1. All commissioners/districts/zones should run an effective verification campaign of such gangs/criminals.
2. The data of the list of criminals listed should be exchanged among themselves by coordinating at the commissionerate/district/zone level.
3. Police personnel appointed in the beat system prevalent in all police stations of the district should monitor the activities of active criminals involved in such crimes in the beat book.
4. Effective action should be taken by the surveillance team constituted in the district and keeping the contact numbers of gangs/criminals on their activities.
5. The Special Task Force (STF) should activate the gangs/criminals by activating their field units as above.

Special emphasis should be given to police personnel in every commissioner/district's local notification unit to collect notifications about such criminals.

In order to curb such incidents effectively, a vigilant eye should be kept on suspicious persons by changing the night patrol party, patrolling vehicles and places daily. After verification of active criminals, if the criminal is not present at his residence, according to Para 258, the police station in-charge will prepare an investigation slip (Form No. 204) and send it through rapid medium. Similarly, according to Para 268 of Police Regulation, after receiving information about the arrival of any suspect in the police station area, the police station area will send the investigation slip (Form No. 205) to the police station concerned at the earliest.

Legal action should be taken against such criminals who have misunderstood their names and addresses during verification and the criminals who are not able to find (missing), they are listed and shared among all Commissionerate/District/Zone/Units.

Such criminals who are native to any other commissioner/district and are temporarily residing in any other commissioner/district, in respect of which investigation slip (Form-205) has been sent or such offenses which a commissioner/departing from the district and residing in any other commissioner/district, in relation to which the investigation slip (Draft-204) has been sent, the compiled information/details will be made available to the Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police. This compiled details will be kept in each commissioner/district.

The district police in-charge will share the details compiled by the criminals through rapid e-mail/fax/WhatsApp, etc.

The Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police will consolidate the information received from their subordinate districts at the regional office level and provide it to their respective zonal Additional Director General of Police. They will give necessary instructions by regular review of the proceedings of their subordinate districts.

The information received from its environmental offices will be compiled at the zone level by the zonal Additional Director General of Police. Subsequently, necessary guidelines will be issued for guidance to their respective enclosure Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police/Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police.

I would like to organize a seminar in their respective commissioners/districts to make their subordinates aware of these instructions and apply them well. These instructions should not be lax or negligent at any level. Ensure strict compliance with the above instructions.

Sincerely,

Vijay Kumar

Per:
All Police Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh
All Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police in-charge district, Uttar Pradesh

Copy:

The following is sent for information and necessary action:

Special Director General, Law and Order/Crime, Uttar Pradesh
Additional Director General of Police STF, Uttar Pradesh
Additional Director General of Police, Railways, Uttar Pradesh
All zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh