
Vijay Kumar
Uttar Pradesh Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar,
Lucknow-226010
Date: October 20, 2023

Subject: Regarding empowerment of writ cells set up at the commissioner/district level and implementing the Writ Management System

Dear Sir/Madam,

The Supreme Court, the High Court Allahabad, and other High Courts of the country have been issued circulars from this headquarters in the past to take immediate effective action on writ petitions and orders received from the country. However, it has come to light that the instructions contained in Circular No. 09/2022 dated April 30, 2022, and not sending instructions in a timely manner, as mentioned in Circular No. 43/2021 dated December 1, 2021, have been non-compliant with other circulars.

Apart from this, adverse comments have been mentioned in various judicial orders for non-compliance with other circulars, including Circular No. 39/2021 dated October 6, 2021, Circular No. 31/2021 dated August 28, 2021, Circular No. 24/2021 dated July 26, 2021, Circular No. 37/2020 dated October 22, 2020, and Circular No. 51/2019 dated December 5, 2019.

The writ cell is constituted to take action on writ petitions at the commissioner/district level, but these writ cells are not working effectively. In general, it has been observed that notices/writ petitions/orders received by the Hon'ble High Court are sent mechanically to the concerned police stations. However, no information is compiled by the writ cell on whether timely action was taken from the police station level on the judicial cases sent to the police station.

Due to no effective arrangement for monitoring the proceedings being done in judicial cases at the Commissionerate/district level, often the status of law officials presenting the state's side in case of non-compliance with orders in court or not reaching instructions on time is uncomfortable. It continues to happen, which has been brought to cognizance of the implementation by the law officials presenting the state.

You will agree that it is not possible to effectively present the state's side to judicial cases if there is no timely compliance or not reaching time, which cannot be ruled out as a possibility of getting the brunt of the accused. For a permanent solution to this problem, it has been decided to strengthen the writ cells at the commissioner/district level and implement the Writ Management System for effective monitoring of judicial cases.

A centralized record of all judicial cases will be kept by the writ cell established at each commissioner/district level, which will immediately send information to the concerned police station/police officer. It will be the responsibility of the concerned police officer to complete regular proceedings on the cases and get a report to the High Court and inform the writ cell about the status quo.

A fortnightly review of pending judicial cases for action at the Commissionerate/district Level will be done regularly by the Police Commissioner/Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police, and the concerned police station in-charge/police officer will be directed to take timely action. Every commissioner can keep a record of the pending judicial cases on a register or computer.

The function of monitoring can be done more effectively in a short time by using general information technology. Take the initiative in charge of the commissioned district and apply an effective writ management system in your commissioner/district.

In the future, an effective writ management system will be prepared for the entire state based on best practices adopted by the commissioner/district.

Therefore, all of you are directed to deploy sufficient numbers of experienced and qualified personnel to empower the writ cells established in the commissioner/district. The orders/notices/writ petitions received from the court should be sent to police stations/officers on time while marking the centralized register, and regularly monitor the proceedings being done in judicial cases. If action is not taken by an officer/employee in judicial cases, action will be taken against him as per rules.

Sincerely,

(Vijay Kumar)

All Zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
All Police Commissioner, Commissionerate, Uttar Pradesh for compliance
All Inspector General of Police / Deputy Inspector General of Police, UP for compliance
All Senior Superintendent of Police / Superintendent of Police, District Railways in-charge, Uttar Pradesh for compliance

Copy: For information and necessary action:

Director General of Police / Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
All Inspector General of Police / Deputy Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow