
Important Email Fax

Headquarters, Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
Tower 2, Police Headquarters, Shaheed Path, Gomtinagar, Lucknow

Letter Number: DG Circular-21/2024
Date: Lucknow, April 29, 2024

To,

Director General of Police / Additional Director General of Police, Training / Special Investigation / Logistics / Fire / Crime Branch / Telecom / EOW / Food Cell / PAC / Vigilance / Prevention of Corruption / Technical / Railway / UP PCL / Rules & Manual / Police Traffic/ Women and Child Safety Organization / STF / ATS / UP 112 / Security U.P. Special Security Force / U.P. Police Recruitment and Promotion Board / Cybercrime / Forensic Science University and GSO
All zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
Police Commissioner, Lucknow / Gautam Buddha Nagar / Ghaziabad / Varanasi / Prayagraj / Agra and Kanpur Nagar
All Inspector General of Police / Deputy Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
All Inspector General of Police / Deputy Inspector General of Police PAC Jones and all PAC section, Uttar Pradesh

Please take reference to the Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh, DG Partner 44/2020 dated December 23, 2020, through which detailed guidelines were issued regarding the conversion of the Director General of Police / Planning sign.

It is to be informed that it has come to our notice that the decorations/appreciation symbols provided by the police officers/employees are not being properly worn in the uniform, which is contrary to the dignity of the police apparel.

The following instructions were given in relation to the appreciation of the Director General of Police issued in the past:

(1) Only one (highest/highest) appreciation symbol provided by that organization will be worn by the appreciation signs provided by Uttar Pradesh Police, CAPFS and other organizations. For example, if all three are provided silver, gold and platinum, then only platinum will be worn. Gold will be worn if gold and silver are provided.

(2) While wearing Working Uniform:

The appreciation symbols will be worn only under the ribbon (if there are medals) on the left pocket and above the button.
i. If an organization is given a single praise mark, then it will be worn just above the button.
ii. If two organizations are given praise symbols, then the right of the left pocket will have U.P. And on the left, the highest of the other organization will be worn.
iii. If three different organizations are given a praise mark, then in such a situation the three will be worn on the plate in such a way that the right side comes after other organizations. For example, Uttar Pradesh Police Silver, Silver from BSF and Gold from CISF is given, their order will be U.P., CISF Gold and BSF Silver on the left to right.
iv. If the appreciation symbol is given by four organizations, then in such a situation, three and the middle pocket will be worn under the middle button. In this too, after Uttar Pradesh Police on the right side of the first line, other organizations will be worn from the highest to the minimum.

(3) While wearing ceremonial uniform:
(A) Medal - Touching with button should be. Should not be very above/below. The praise symbol by the medal holders will be worn in the center of the left pocket as follows:
i. If an organization is provided by an organization, then it will be worn just below the button.
ii. If two organizations are given praise symbols, then just below the left pocket button, U.P. And below it will be worn by the highest of other organizations.
iii. If three different organizations are given a praise sign, then in such a situation, just below the left pocket button, all three will be worn on the plate in such a way that the right side comes after other organizations. For example, Uttar Pradesh Police Silver, Silver from BSF and Gold from CISF is given, their order will be U.P., CISF Gold and BSF Silver on the left to right.
iv. If the appreciation symbols are given by four organizations, then in such a situation, three and the left pocket will be worn just below the middle button. In this too, after Uttar Pradesh Police on the right side of the first line, other organizations will be worn from the highest to the minimum.

(B) If an officer/employee is not given a medal, then praise sign will be worn according to stone 2 (B).

If a National/State Training Institute or Organization is provided for completing any special training or working on a badge uniform after working for a period of time, then the badge will be worn on the left side.

Please note that if an officer is already wearing a badge, they should not wear another one. In such cases, the new badge will be added to the existing one.

Note: The above instructions are meant to be guidelines only and can be modified as per the requirements of the department.

Copy: The following sent for information and necessary action:

All gazetted officers, headquarters Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
All confidential assistant and section officer, headquarters of headquarters Police, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow