
DG Circular No. 12/2024

Prashant Kumar, Director General of Police,
IPS (Uttar Pradesh),
Gomtinagar Extension, Lucknow, 226002.

Date: March 4, 2024
Lucknow

Subject: To ensure fear-free, independent and fair Lok Sabha elections in 2024

Registration of prosecutions related to elections and discussion of the same are required.

Dear sir,

It is expected that the Lok Sabha General Election 2024 should be completed in an independent and peaceful manner. In view of this, the Election Commission of India has expressed the intention that elections will be held during this period.

Immediate prosecution should be registered for related crimes within one month of completion of elections. Prosecution proceedings should be started and above action preserved by the District Election Officer and the police.

Instructions were also given to be done under supervision by the Superintendent of Police, Superintendent of Police.

The following instructions are issued for:

1. Prosecution Registration:

Registration of election-related crimes should be done as per letter no. 464 of the Election Commission of India dated 08/02/2023 and Annexure 1.

After notification is issued, there should be no delay in registration of election-related crimes.

2. Discussion:

The site should be inspected immediately by prudent and high officials. Videography should be done at the time of inspection, and a map of the scene of the incident should be prepared correctly. The site should be preserved while scaling in a manner that physical displays taking possession of the prosecutor from the spot are maintained.

Rules should be prepared and preserved properly. Packing, sealing, and labeling should be done. Electronic evidence in this regard should be ensured.

DG Circular No. 17/2016 dated March 16, 2016, to compile.

Ensure analog action is taken soon while coordinating with the Forensic Science Laboratory.

Get the method after receiving test results from the science laboratory. Rightly involved in deliberation, do so that he presents him as a consistent evidence during trial in court.

The statement of the prosecutors should be taken under Section 161 CRPC as soon as possible. Because the complainant may be from other districts or provinces, so that later deliberations can be dispensed with unnecessary willingness.

Other oral circumstantial evidence should also be compiled as soon as possible. If any body crime has occurred, then immediate medical treatment of the victim is required in that demand.

Receiving medical reports should be contained in deliberations. After analyzing all the evidence, the police under Section 173 CRPC should report to the court.

In prosecutions where prosecution approval is required, advocacy should be done as soon as possible and obtain prosecution approval.

It will be the responsibility of the Supervision Officer to ensure that all proceedings are fulfilled or not if the Supervision Officer reviews the same.

The police report should be sent to the court only when you are satisfied with all the proceedings done by the police.

3. Prosecution:

The prosecution of prosecution after taking cognizance by the court affiliated to crimes related to deductions should be completed.

For this, action should be taken by the concerned Police Commissioner, Superintendent of Police.

In the meeting of the Superintendent Monitoring Cell, coordinate with the District Judge and prosecution.

Complete proceedings on priority basis.

A gazetted-level officer should be appointed and timed for effective advocacy of prosecutors. In view of Para-IV, he should be given a lot of direction.

I would like that the above directions given by the Election Commission of India are promptly complied with and issued as guidelines.

Please do so, and ensure fair, independent, and quality scientific deliberations in the scientific manner, its subordinate gazetted officers to be completed.

Officers-in-Charge should be ensured through a workshop.

Ensure compliance with the above instructions.

Enclosure: None

Prashant Kumar,
1. Sambharat Police Commissioner,
Uttar Pradesh.
Ramart Senior Superintendent of Police,
2.
Grao Janpat, Uttar Pradesh.

Copy: Sent to ensure the following for information and to ensure compliance according to the above:

1. All zonal Additional Directors, Uttar Pradesh.
2. Director General of Police, Crime Railway Prosecution, Uttar Pradesh.
3. Upper All the Charitable Police Excellent Inspector General, Uttar Pradesh.
4. Superintendent of Police, Railway, Uttar Pradesh.
5. All...