
DG Circular Number 3, 2023

Vijay Kumar
Director General of Police,
IPS,
Uttar Pradesh,
Police Headquarters, Lucknow,
Date: Lucknow, October 2023,

Dear Sir/Madam,

The Additional Director General of Police, Technical Services, Uttar Pradesh, has plotted the criminal data of CCTNS on a map for the years 2020, 2021, and 2022. The dark night period from October (15 days, 10:00 pm to 05:00 am) provides data on theft, cash, and robbery. This data can be accessed by logging in through the Gmail ID provided in the link. After login, the data uploaded in My Maps can be seen on the map as required by selecting the option given on the left side.

All Theft Oct
Trend Theft Oct
All Burglary Oct
Trend Burglary Oct
All Loot Oct

The above data can be viewed by clicking on the check box as required. The map can be zoomed in and out.

Google Link: https://drive.google.com/openid=ipoancb2jo9ghdbobax4libc3yusy78uspsharingeipm

At the state level, a pattern of crime is also obtained through Trend Analysis (trend analysis) of the data of the above criminal incidents. Based on the analysis of time, location, etc., predictive policing will help in preventing future crimes. Such places should be identified in each district where many such incidents have occurred. If Police Commissionerate districts analyze the data at their level, then a trend and pattern of the said crime will be reflected. On this basis, it is possible to estimate in relation to future crime, making an action plan to develop a strategy to prevent crime. The following instructions are given for crime control and prevention:

In each district, hot spots of criminal incidents should be identified and effective patrolling/foot patrolling ensured by mapping them.
Arrangements should be made for CCTV cameras as much as possible at the places identified for preventing crime, so that criminals and possible incidents traveling to that place can be prevented. Permanent police pickets should also be arranged at sensitive places.
A strong patrolling system should be ensured, with regular patrolling matched.
According to crime mapping of PRV vehicles of Dial 112, the root chart should be re-determined. Their operations should be adjusted in such a way that all sensitive places of the district can be covered in possible time intervals of the incident.
An adequate number of patrolling vehicles should be installed for patrolling sensitive highways.
Ensure the supervision by a gazetted officer of the said system. Checking of the said sensitive places must be done by the night zonal checking officer, and corrective measures should also be adjusted by mentioning the reflected deficiencies in the checking register.
Checking of buses running and arranging police squads as much as possible.
Outside railway stations, monitoring of suspicious persons should be ensured by putting police personnel on duty at bus bases, malls, crowded places.
Suspicious vehicles and persons should be checked by changing the place at different times. Suspected vehicles and persons should be physically searched.
In accordance with the above instructions, organize a seminar in your commissioned district to make your subordinates aware of these instructions and comply. These instructions should not be lax or negligent at any level.

Sincerely,
(Vijay Kumar)

To:
All Police Commissioners, Uttar Pradesh
All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police, District in charge/Railways, Uttar Pradesh

Sent for copy-conversion and necessary action:

Special Director General, Law and Order, Crime, Uttar Pradesh
Additional Director General of Police, Technical Services, Uttar Pradesh
Additional Director General of Police, STF, Uttar Pradesh
Additional Director General of Police, Dial-112, Uttar Pradesh
Additional Director General of Police, Railways, Uttar Pradesh
All Zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
All Inspector Generals of Police/Deputy Inspector Generals of Police, Uttar Pradesh