
DG Circular Number: 34
2023
Vijay Kumar
Director General of Police
IPS, Uttar Pradesh
Police Bhawan, Gomti Nagar Extension, Lucknow
Date: September 2023
Subject: Control of Cyber Crime in the State

Dear Sir/Madam,

As you are aware, while the usefulness of smartphones, computers, and internet is increasing at present, it is also being misused in criminal acts. Apart from large cities, cyber crimes are increasing rapidly in cities, towns, and rural areas of the state. Criminals involved in cyber crime include those who commit credit card fraud, ATM/debit card fraud, internet banking fraud, electronic fund transfers fraud, money laundering, online shopping fraud, embezzlement, and hacking. The prevention of cyber crimes and timely disposal of investigations to punish criminals is a very important responsibility of the police.

However, due to lack of expertise and other personnel, appropriate action is not being taken in the investigation, supervision, and prosecution of cybercrime cases. You will agree that with the establishment of special cybercrime police stations, registration and deliberations of cybercrime in districts, and action on cybercriminals will be more convenient for the general public.

This requires developing the capacity of expert investigations at the police station level and increasing professionalism.

Description of manpower to be appointed in Cyber Cell:

Inspector: 1
Sub Inspector: 2
Chief Reserve/Reserve: 2

Training:
All police personnel to be appointed in Cyber Cell will be trained through CTRN. It is mandatory for them to complete the online training course available on BASIC MODULE of Responder Track, Forensic Track, and Investigation Track within 02 months.

Work and responsibility of Cyber Cell appointed at police station level:

The Station-level Cybercrime Cell will generally discuss ordinary cyber crimes such as ATM fraud, credit card fraud, wallet fraud, fake profile, password hack, etc. The officer-in-charge of the Cyber Cell appointed at the police station will be an Inspector, under whose direction the team will work.

Providing assistance to persons suffering from cyber crime coming to the police station through quick action, such as ATM fraud or online fraud, seizing the account/wallet of the accused immediately, taking prompt action on social media complaints.

Providing technical assistance to prosecutors registered under the Information Technology Act at the police station, including evidence protection, analysis, and compilation.

To check applications received related to cyber crime and take legal action on them as per rules.

The Cyber Cell will spread awareness to the general public for the prevention of cybercrime and assist persons suffering from cyber financial crimes by providing their information/complaint on Cyber Helpline Number 1930 and website www.cybercrime.gov.in.

Proper action will be taken by the Cyber Cell to return the frozen amount of the victim to the victim's bank account through Cyber Cell number 1930.

The screenshot of evidence related to cyber crime, such as ID, profile posts, and other digital documents, etc. will be secured/archive.

If the incident of cognizable cybercrime has happened, the station in-charge/cyber cell nodal officer will be conveyed for the first information report.

Necessary legal action will be taken after examining complaints received on the NCRP portal on time.

Action will be taken to block the mobile and phone IMEI number used in cyber crime through NCRP portal.
Blocking the mobile number given in bank accounts opened on fake name/ID through NCRP portal.

A register will be maintained by the Cyber Cell Nodal Officer, in which the details of all the above actions will be mentioned daily.

All employees posted in the Cyber Cell and gazetted cyber supervision officer's name, designation, mobile number, email ID will be made available to the headquarters cybercrime from time to time.

I am confident that by following these instructions, you will get the expected success in curbing the increasing cyber crimes and the image of the police will also be better.

Sincerely,

(Vijay Kumar)

All Zonal Additional Director General of Police, U.P. (By name)
All Police Commissioner, Commissionerate, U.P. (By name)

Copy sent to the following for information and necessary action:

1. All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, U.P.
2. All District Public Senior/Superintendent of Police, U.P.