
DOJI- Circular Number: 44 /2024

Prashant Kumar

Director General of Police

IPS

Uttar Pradesh

Gomtinagar Extension, Lucknow - 226002

Date: Lucknow, March 12, 2024

Subject: Necessary guidelines regarding effective prevention and safety of events happening with tourists and devotees

Dear Sir,

You are aware that tourists from the country and abroad come to see the religious and historical heritage of the state as well as natural sites.

An atmosphere has been created in the state, which is frequented by large numbers of tourists and devotees in places like Kashi, Mathura, Ayodhya, Agra, Vindhyachal, Chitrakoot, Kushinagar, Shravasti, etc. The law and order situation should be strengthened at such places so that a sense of security is developed among the visiting tourists and devotees.

The police need to be vigilant and proactive towards any untoward incident like robbery, theft, or party with such tourists/devotees. When such incidents occur, where the image of the state police is tarnished, on the other hand, tourism is adversely affected and there is a feeling of insecurity among tourists/devotees. Action should be taken by making an action plan for effective prevention of such incidents.

Tourists/religious places are the invaluable heritage of the nation. It is our responsibility to maintain their safety.

Tourists/devotees from the country/abroad are presently visiting in large numbers at tourist religious places. Due to lack of adequate arrangements for their security, there is a fear of robbery, theft, etc. Adequate protection should be provided to such sites and tourists/devotees.

A team should be formed at the district level for effective prevention of events that take place with tourists/devotees, which will take action with the events that will happen to them.

A large number of CCTV cameras should be arranged in all the districts of the state through Operation Trinetra. In the appropriate places of such tourist/religious places where CCTV cameras are not administered, more and more cameras should be arranged by identifying those places so that incidents of robbery, theft, etc. can be identified and the criminals can be caught and taken immediate action against them.

In order to ensure that there is no untoward incident with tourists/devotees visiting the religious places of the state, it is necessary that officers and employees at the local police level be imposed for compilation. On the basis of the modus operandi of the events that took place earlier with tourists/devotees, criminals should be identified and taken legal action against them as per rules.

Earlier, the list of criminals involved in such incidents should be updated and identified on the basis of activism and taking legal action against them as per rules.

For the prevention of such crimes, it is necessary that AI tools, Trinetra App, searchlights, and other technical means should be used.

Similar apps have been developed in other states on the lines of Trinetra App developed for compiling a database of criminals in the state. Action should be taken from these states by matching their data for identification of criminals, especially nomadic criminals, and action should be taken for prevention and detection.

Ghumant caste criminals remain active at railway tracks, bus stations, etc., and stay around deserted sites/railway tracks. They should be verified and taken effective monitoring and necessary action should be taken.

For the prevention of incidents of chain snatching, tampering, etc. with tourists/devotees visiting the religious places and heritage of the state, but effective action should be taken keeping a vigilant vision.

Poisoning/Tapaji gang, etc., should also be kept under surveillance.

I would like to make the above instructions to be complied with literally by informing your subordinate officer/employee.

Sincerely,

Prashant Kumar

1. All Police Commissioners, Uttar Pradesh
2. All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police, Uttar Pradesh
3. District Railways, Uttar Pradesh in charge

Copy: The following sent for information and necessary action:

Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order), Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
Additional Director General of Police (Railway), Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
All Zonal Additional Directors General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
All Inspector Generals of Police/Deputy Inspector Generals of Police, Uttar Pradesh