
DG-Parties No.-4/2024


Prashant Kumar, Director General of Police


IPS


Uttar Pradesh


Gomtinagar Extension, Lucknow-226002


Date: Lucknow, March 2024


Subject: In relation to effective prevention of incidents of death in police custody


Guidance


Dear Madam/Sir,


You are aware that the person to be involved in custody, whether he is accused of a heinous crime or not, should be treated with respect and dignity.


What is the statutory obligation of the police to present it before a safe court? Police custody should ensure that death incidents do not occur.


These instructions have been issued for compliance.


DG Circular No. 07/1117, dated March 21, 1117, and these instructions have come into cognizance.


Spirited Circular No. 15/1117, dated January 26, 1117, complaints of police custody memes.


DG Circular Number 40/2001, dated August 13, 2001


Daji Matter Number-10/2018, dated March 17, 2018: The image is an image.


Mi Circular Number-50/2018, dated January 13, 2018. Police security should be ensured.


Dialogue Number-28/2020, dated April 10, 2020: also distorted the form of public service.


Consideration is an important land, and police custody with a person should ensure that there are no incidents of death.


Dhuna Circular Nations-14/2022, dated June 1, 2022


Caution should be taken while arresting and handling by the Supreme Court (D.K.Basu vs State of Bengal Business Decision). This decision should be followed in literally. Relations also studied the order passed by the National Human Rights Commission NHRC from time to time.


Ensure compliance should be ensured.


You are knowledgeable that such parables are coming in the present, some people may suffer from Comorbidity and Anyya.


The reason is going to die. For this, it is essential to ensure that police custody does not result in death.


These instructions have been issued for compliance.


Creation of registered prosecution in relation to incidents of death in police custody should be done within 24 hours. The Human Rights Commission should be summoned every condition.


The Panchnama Magistrate of the deceased should be filled by the Magistrate in relation to police custody memeritu and videography must be done by the doctor by conducting post-mortem of the body.


According to the provisions of Section 176 of the Medampra No., orders for magistrate investigations should be issued, and district-level investigations should be conducted early disposal of investigation. But these instructions should be made from the District Magistrate.


The prosecution related to police custody mention should be done.


National Human Rights Commission, New Delhi


Post-mortem report, judicial magistrate investigation report, etc. should be sent immediately after the post-mortem by the officers, within a maximum of one week.


Mehu government's pakyas should be sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for viscera testing (Number-M-67 (1)/16-1-01-38, Visited 2001, Dated January 19, 2010) and headquarters letter number: DG-O-QIE instructions/2010, dated February 9, 2010.


Compliance should be ensured.


Police custody negative death incident was found to be found in the police atmosphere/guilty. In addition to the regular proceedings registered against the employees, a departmental investigation edited. Those circumstances clearly in departmental investigations should be made as a result of which the incident has occurred. Apart from this, others should take appropriate action while testing the circumstances, so that this type of incident can be effectively curbed.


5 I want to protect the above points and study intensely but in this regard:


The district should be informed by informing them in detail that it should inform them in detail that it realizing the main types of negligence, apathy, and laxity. Above instructions the high officials should ensure compliance with intensive supervision. Violation of direction doers. Police personnel should be identified and punished so that the future is an unpleasant incident does not happen.


4


Prashant Kumar


All Police Commissioner


Black region |


2 All Senior Superintendent of Police / Superintendent of Police, District in charge/Railways, Uttar Pradesh |


Copy:- The following is sent for information and necessary action:


1. The Director General of Police Law and Order, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow


2. Director General of Police, Railway, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow


3. Considerable zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh


4 All Center Inspector General of Police / Deputy Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh