
Doji-Circular Number 06/2024

Prashant Kumar, Director General of Police (IPS)

Uttar Pradesh

Police Headquarters, Tower-2

Date: Lucknow, February 2, 2024

Dear Sir/Madam,

It is to be made aware that the prevention of crimes against women is the most important priority of the police. In the review held at the government level, dissatisfaction has been expressed due to a lack of effective action against women-related crimes. All of you have been given necessary guidelines from time to time from the headquarters level regarding the prevention of crimes against women and the process adopted in their deliberations.

At present, successful schemes like women's help desks, etc. are prevalent with the aim of awakening the spirit of security among women. There is a need to pay special attention to the following points with the aim of adequate sensitivity and effective curb on women crimes from registration of crimes against women to the end of investigation:

1. In view of controlling women-related crimes and taking effective action, ensure that if any incident occurs, the site should be inspected by senior officials promptly, and action is taken as per law.

2. It has also come to light that the work of office and watch duty, etc. is being taken from women police personnel, while in fact, their field/beat duty is the work of women's safety and control of women's crime. Therefore, instead of taking office and guard, etc. from them, field/beat duty should be taken so that a woman suffering from any female harassment can narrate the incident to the female police personnel and there will be a sense of security in it.

3. At the police station, immediate legal action should be taken on the complaint of the victim in crimes related to women, and the victim should not be harassed in any way.

4. The Honorable Court should be sent to the Honorable Court with promptness after completing quality proclaimed action in women-related crimes.

Therefore, you are requested to take care of the above points seriously and make all officers and employees appointed in the district aware of these instructions in detail through a workshop. Vigilance is necessary in this regard so that they do not show any negligence/apathy in the discharge of their responsibilities.

The above instructions should be strictly complied with.

Prashant Kumar

1. All Police Commissioners, Uttar Pradesh
2. All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police, District Railways in charge, Uttar Pradesh
3. Copy- Send to the following for information and necessary action:
   a. Additional Director General of Police, Women and Child Safety Organization, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
   b. Additional Director General of Police, Railways, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
   c. All Zonal Additional Directors General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
   d. All Regional Directors General of Police/Deputy Inspectors General of Police, Uttar Pradesh