
DG-Parties No. 48/2023

Vijay Kumar, Director General of Police,
IPS, Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Tower-2,
Gomtinagar Extension, Lucknow 226002

Date: November 03, 2023

Subject: PIL No. 1474/2011 Support India Welfare Society vs. Uttar Pradesh State and others regarding the necessary guidelines regarding compliance of the order dated January 16, 2011 passed by the Hon'ble High Court Allahabad.

Dear Madam/Sir,

Please be aware that in the above reported case, the order passed by the Hon'ble High Court on January 16, 2011, under the chairmanship of Commissioner and Secretary, Revenue Council, regarding the freeing of illegal encroachment on state ponds/lakes and waterbodies.

A state-level committee has been formed, in which Deputy Inspector General of Police, State Special Research Team, Uttar Pradesh has been nominated as a member.

The Chairman and Secretary, Revenue Council, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow expect that action be taken on the following points to comply with the instructions given by the Hon'ble Court:

Arrangements should be made to complete the expected implementation as soon as possible by establishing coordination between the Nominated Officer nominated from the Revenue Department and the Gazetted Nodal Officers from the Police Department to free the illegal encroachment on ponds/lakes and other waterbodies of the state.

In coordination with concerned tehsil/district level revenue officials, arrangements should be made to register pre-information about the implementation on complaints received regarding encroachment on pond/lake and other waterbodies.

All Commissionerate/District Deputy Superintendent of Police at the district level should be nominated for the process of keeping them free from encroachment on ponds/lakes and other waterbodies and directed for action by coordinating with nodal officers nominated by other departments.

In compliance with the order passed by the High Court, review meetings will be organized at the headquarters level to review the progress of proceedings. The agenda point will include the review of keeping the proceedings free from encroachment on ponds/lakes and other waterbodies. The report related to the action taken by the district in-charge on the points mentioned in the agenda point will be made available through Inspector General of Police Regional, providing regular updates to Additional Director General of Police/Police Commissioner.

Referred information will be provided through the Additional Director General of Police Zonal for use in review meetings/video conferencing to be held at the headquarters level. Member/Deputy Inspector General of Police, State Level Special Research Team, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow will regularly deliver consolidated information of the state and participate in state-level meetings to be held by the committee with relevant information.

All of you are directed to ensure strict compliance of the above instructions to the State-Level Committee constituted under the chairmanship of the Chairman and Secretary Revenue Council, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow in accordance with the instructions given by the Hon'ble High Court.

The case is covered by the Hon'ble High Court. Therefore, please provide top priority in this regard.

Sincerely,
Vijay Kumar

To:

All Police Commissioners, Uttar Pradesh
All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police, District in-charge, Uttar Pradesh

Copy sent to the following for information and necessary action:

Special Director General of Police Law and Order, Uttar Pradesh
Additional Director General of Police Prosecution, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
All Zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
Additional Director General of Police, State Special Research Team, Uttar Pradesh
All Regional Inspector Generals of Police/Deputy Inspectors General of Police
Member, State-Level Committee, Uttar Pradesh