
Circular Number: 43/2023

Vijay Kumar,

B.P. to 0
Director General of Police,

Uttar Pradesh

Police headquarters, Gomtinagar Extension,
Lucknow 226010

Date: Lucknow, October 2023

Dear Sir/Madam,

You all agree that the police is a service. The way this service is often determined by police regulations or with the experience of the authorities. But mostly it has been found that after transferring from the post of an officer, the scheme applied by him also ends. The main reason behind this is that there is no impact study of the scheme, so that it can be implemented in the entire state through a police circular, finding it profitable or revised as required. Also, in the constantly changing environment, it is also necessary that the police should test new methods and implement them. For this, it is necessary to do continuous research.

2- Uttar Pradesh Police in the years 2018, 2019, and 2020 did research in police science, technology, and law with Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University, IIT Kanpur, and IIM. A Memorandum (MOU) has been signed with Indore. The evaluation found that these MOUs are being implemented in a systematic manner. On the personal initiative of an officer, some work is being done in some places, but some shortcomings are being seen in this system. While the research work ends after the transfer of the officer, it has also been seen that two different officers are working on one subject at a research institution. In this way, the entire Uttar Pradesh Police is not getting the benefit of the ongoing work between an officer and a research institution.

Keeping in view the above deficiencies, it has been decided that Rules and Manual, Lucknow will be the nodal agency for the implementation of MOUs signed with all educational institutions. This will ensure that there is no recurrence on various subjects, the benefit of research will be given to the entire Uttar Pradesh Police, and research will also be reviewed at the headquarters level. Also, the educational institution will have to coordinate with the Uttar Pradesh Police through the same nodal agency.

On this side, you are expected to send a subtle proposal to my office and Director General of Manual, Lucknow within 200-300 words on police science, crime, law, technology, etc., by doing so, we will move towards evidence-based policing.

Sincerely,

Vijay Kumar

Copy: For information and necessary action for the following:

Director General of Police, Rules and Manual, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow.
All unit in-charge district branch, Uttar Pradesh.
All Additional Director General of Police (Zone), Uttar Pradesh/Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police/Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police/In-Charge District.