
DG Circular Number 34/2023

Vijay Kumar
Director General of Police, IPS
Uttar Pradesh Police Headquarters, Lucknow
Date: Lucknow, September 3, 2023

Dear Sir/Madam,

In the state, the arrest of criminals involved in controlling crime and criminals in courts with maximum punishment is very important. The quality of deliberations should be impartial, quick, and effective.

The report/information received from your zone/commissionerate from January 1, 2023 to July 31, 2023 was reviewed at the headquarters level. After review, some commissioners/districts such as Jaunpur-14, Kanpur-12, Kaushambi-11, Ghaziabad-10, and Sitapur-01 have been registered with the highest number of prosecutions.

You will agree that due to lack of effective control over such crimes and criminals, while criminals are prone to avoid the court, and victims do not get timely justice, there is a sense of disappointment. Such activities affect social harmony and communal stress and law and order situation arises.

Therefore, the following instructions are given to establish effective control over the activities of conversion against law in the state:

1. Review and Listing: Review all such incidents in the commissioners/districts, after reviewing all such incidents, list the criminals who convert to the law in a lawful manner and keep a cautious vision on them.

2. Prosecution Registration: On receiving the information, the prosecution should be registered as per the provisions contained in the Conversion of the Religion Act, 2021.

3. Analysis and Review of Legal Proceedings: Each case of illegal conversion should be reviewed in depth, including how many days delayed proceedings took, what action was taken against the accused, and what was the victim's experience.

4. Vigilant Vision: In such incidents, a cautious vision should be kept on the activities of various educational institutions and their operators who came to light in the past.

5. Hotspot Analysis of Incidents: After determining the site of the incident, after reviewing cases related to conversion, identify hotspot pockets and areas where excessive events have occurred.

6. Active and Vigilant Notification System: Social media cells established in districts should be alerted in this matter. These cases should be briefed for beat constables, countryside/urban Romeo squad, dial-112, surveillance cell, crime branch, women power line-1090, etc.

7. Function's Profile Analysis: The profile of the victim and accused involved in illegal conversion cases should be analyzed, including age, education, caste, family business, income, and family.

8. Accused's Profile Analysis: A list of accused involved in illegal conversion cases should also be prepared and their entire profile should be analyzed.

9. Counseling: A counseling board should be formed like Family Counseling Center in the district to ensure dialogue counseling with the victim girls.

10. Monitoring/Supervision: In certain cases, it has been observed that FIR was not registered in the order of Section-4 of the Religion Act, Section-3, due to technical grounds. Therefore, supervision should be ensured by opening a special report as per the requirement.

His answer should be written by asking specific questions related to:

Therefore, supervision should be ensured by opening a special report as per the requirement. After filing the charge sheet in court, effective lobbying should be ensured and in meetings of the monitoring cell, these cases must be discussed regarding progress in court.

All jurisdictional/Additional Superintendent of Police appointed in Commissionerate/districts will regularly review the above action in their subordinate police stations/areas and make a progress report to the Commissionerate/District In-charge.

Duly reviewing various factors of conversion against law and ensuring concrete and meaningful measures should be ensured to prevent this activity in time. If an incident happens, legal action should be ensured promptly.

Reviewing negligent compilations, taking action on time, and neglects/involuments made aimed at benefiting the accused should be ensured against the guilty employees.

I would like you to assimilate the above instructions yourself and make a seminar in the district and make your subordinate gazetted officers/police in-charge aware of this directive. These instructions should not be relaxed/negligent at any level. Be sure to strictly comply with the above instructions.

Vijay Kumar
All Police Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh
All Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police, District Railways, Uttar Pradesh