
Vijay Kumar DG Circular No.

IPS 37, 2023

Director General of Police,

Uttar Pradesh

Police Headquarters Gomti Nagar Extension, Lucknow-226010

Date: September 4, 2023

Guidelines for removing objectionable content from prevailing social media platforms

Dear Sir,

Currently, there has been an unexpected increase in cybercrimes. Along with the increasing use of cyberspace, safe use of social media platforms is a big challenge.

DG Circular No. 0116 dated January 8, 2016

DG Circular No. 1716 dated March 16, 2016

DG Circular No. 0617 dated March 26, 2017

In the current perspective, social media among common people has become a part of their digital life. In such a situation, people suffering from criminal mentality are misusing them due to minor lapses and negligence in the use of social media.

For the prevention of increasing social media crimes, it is necessary that police officials and employees should be informed about the constantly changing technology and new laws related to the new guidelines and cybercrime propounded by the Government of India, so that they are one step ahead of criminals and can keep cybercrimes from being able to unveil quick and successful.

Registration and investigation of cybercrime, evidence compilation, guidelines for prevention:

Compire immediate evidence in social media-related crimes. For example, as evidence, preserve social media links, profile links, screenshots, and screenshots of chats etc.

Protect online from social media related to various social media platforms related to crime related to crime.

Follow the Low Standard Operating Process (SOP) to remove objectionable content on social networking sites like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and WhatsApp, etc.

First, the URL of the profile posting objectionable content should be obtained from the complainant.
Offensive content and related profiles should be taken screenshots and printouts in time.
Regarding the objectionable content posted on the social media platform or relative to the profile made, immediate prosecution (FIR) should be registered in the relevant sections of the IT Act.
The concerned social networking site should be sent to the concerned social networking site for the identity of the suspect who posted/uploaded objectionable content and send the signature of a gazetted officer under the signature and uploading it to the social media platform or email in the sealed PDF format. This process should be done only with an authorized government email ID.

In the notice of D.P. No. Section 91, 69A IT Act, information about the uploading objectionable content as per requirement, such as Creation IP Address with Date and Time, Login Logout IP Addresses with Date and Time, Registered Email ID/Mobile Number and Mobile Number and any specific post, message, Date and time should be mentioned with links for tweet, video, etc.

According to Intermediate Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code Rules, 2021 and Amendment 2022/2023, the time period has been set for removing objectionable content. For example, the first time period of removing objectionable content is 36 hours. Under the said guidelines, legal action can also be taken against the concerned social media platforms/intermediaries after the scheduled time period.

The above-mentioned guidelines are being attached for accessible reference. In this sequence, the following portal should be used to inform the major social media platform to inform objectionable content and take action on it:

Meta (Facebook, Instagram): https://www.facebook.com/Racords
Google (Gmail, YouTube, etc.): https://alerts.google.com
WhatsApp: https://www.whatsapp.com/records/login
Twitter: https://legalrequests.twitter.com/forms/landingdisclaimer

According to Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code Rules 2021 and Amendment 2023, it is mandatory to appoint all social media platforms/intermediaries a Chief Compliance Officer, which can be contacted when needed.

On receiving the mobile number of the suspect, advance legal action should be taken or when received with IP address, date, and time should be converted into IST and IP address should be obtained by sending IPDR by sending ISP and analyzing IPDR and identifying the correct mobile number by analyzing IPDR. Take tax advance action.

If the social media platform is refusing to give direct information during a deliberation, then according to the established process, data should be obtained under the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT).

Therefore, all of you are directed to ensure strict compliance, directing your subordinates to comply with the above instructions.

Sincerely,

Vijay Kumar

Copy:

Commissionerate Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Agra, Ghaziabad, Prayagraj.
All Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police in-charge district, Railways, and Police.
All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh.