
Vijay Kumar, DG Circular No.: 03/2024

IPS Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
Uttar Pradesh Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension, Lucknow-226002

Date: January 19, 2024

Subject: Public Interest Litigation No. 2753/2023 in Re Designated Courts for MPS MLAs vs.

Dear Sir/Madam,

The decision passed by the Supreme Court in compliance with the RIT Petition (Civil) No.-619/2016 Ashwani Kumar Upadhyay vs. India and others, dated 09.11.2023, has been registered. The Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad passed an order dated 04.01.2024, directing that the criminal prosecutions against MPs and MLAs be disposed of speedily.

In compliance with this order, the following directions are issued:

6. The State shall also inform the court as to the officer designed by it for effecting notices on accused persons and for serving summons/warrants/notifications in cash/credit/cashless transactions to the concerned officers (MPS MLAs).

The Hon'ble Supreme Court passed an order dated 04.01.2024, directing that the criminal prosecutions against MPs and MLAs be disposed of speedily.

All of you are directed to nominate a Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime)/Assistant Police Officer (Crime) and Additional Superintendent of Police (Crime)/Deputy Superintendent of Police (Crime) posted in your respective districts. Their name, designation, mobile number, and email ID should be provided to this headquarters. The designated nodal officer will send the Designated Courts for MPS MLAs a serial report before the due date and ensure the presence on the due date of the accused/witnesses.

The case is related to compliance with the orders of the Supreme Court and the High Court, hence special priority is expected.

Attachment: Yatopari

Sincerely,
(Vijay Kumar)

1. All Police Commissioners, Uttar Pradesh
2. All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police, District in charge, Uttar Pradesh

Copy: For information and necessary action for the following:
1. Director General of Police (Law and Order), Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
2. Additional Director General of Police (Railways), Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
3. Additional Director General of Police (Prosecution), Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
4. Additional Director General of Police (Crime), Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
5. Additional Director General of Police, Technical Services Headquarters, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
6. All zonal Additional Directors General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
7. All Inspector Generals of Police/Deputy Inspector Generals of Police, UP

Court No. 21

Case: Public Interest Litigation (PIL) No. 2753 of 2023
Petitioner: In Re Designated Courts for MPS MLAs
Respondent: State of U.P.
Counsel for Petitioner: Suo Motu
Counsel for Respondent: Ga.

Hon'ble Manoj Kumar Gupta, Acting Chief Justice
Hon'ble Samit Gopal, J.

1. Sri Manish Goel, Learned Additional Advocate General, and Sri Alok K. Sand, Learned Government Advocate, are presented on behalf of the State.

2. On the previous date, we issued a number of directions to the special courts, which require furnishing of statements on variable aspects.

3. We had also directed the Registrar General to ensure that an independent tab on the website of this court be active, reflecting clearly the proceedings.

4. The Registrar General shall submit a report as to whether these directions are being given effect to by us in this area.

5. List this case against 23.01.2024 at 02:00 p.m.

6. State shall also inform the court as to the officer designed by it for effects on the accused persons and notices on healthings in cashes in cashes in castes to mbs

(Samit Gopal, J.)
(Manoj Kumar Gupta, ACJ)
Order Date: 04.01.2024
SK