
Prashant Kumar, DG Circular No.-21/2024

IPS Director General of Police,
Uttar Pradesh

Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension,
Lucknow-226002

Date: May 1, 2024

Subject: Section 482 no.14195/2024 Rajesh vs. U.P.State and other related Chiefs102/2015 (Section) 147, 353, 34, 504, Bhadvi, Thana-Tahabarpur, District-Azamgarh.Regarding compliance of order dated May 1, 2024 passed by the High Court.

Dear Sir/Madam,

It is to be made aware that from time to time, the time-bound and evidence of criminal cases from the headquarters level, after completing the charge sheet, the instructions have been issued through lateral circulars regarding submission of the court.DG Circular No.06/2021 dated February 19, 2021, DG Circular No.01/2019 dated January 2, 2019, and DG Circular No.59/2016 dated October 20, 2016. However, it is not being fully complied with.

2- Section 482 no.14195/2024 Rajesh vs. U.P.State and othersIn the order dated May 1, 2024 passed by the High Court.The High Court has expressed displeasure over sending the charge sheet without mentioning the date with the signature by the concerned jurisdiction. It has been directed for the following action:

2- A perusal of the charge sheet demonstrates that the investigating officer has signed on the charge sheet on May 9, 2016, and the circle officer has sent it to the court without endorsing the date under his signature. It is being noted by this court that in several cases, the circle officer is sending the charge sheet to the court without mentioning the date with his signature.

3- The Director General of Police shall file his personal affidavit as to whose Circle Officer has not put the date under his signature when the charge sheet is submitted to the court. The affidavit shall also be given with regard to the actual date when the charge sheet has been submitted before the court concerned. If it is found that the circle officer was not diligent in his duties, the director general of police shall mention in his affidavit the action taken against them to the Court Concerned.

3- In the writ petition, the accused in the criminal case completed three years and seven months after the completion of the investigation in the criminal case. It is being sent to court and the case is a case of period. The High Court has been challenged.

4- It is clear from the above that it is extremely important to send the charge sheet within the stipulated time limit while making a time-bound discussion and after preparing the charge sheet, keeping the supervision officer pending at the level and in the charge sheet. It is not acceptable in any case not to mark the date with the signature while sending the court.

5- Therefore, all of you are directed to inform all subordinate discussions and supervision officers about the prior instructions regarding the court to send the charge sheet issued from this headquarters level and ensure that all the supervision officers must mark the date with the signature made to send the court. If this type of mistake comes to light in future, then action will be taken against the concerned investigations and supervision officers as well as the Senior Superintendent of Police of the district as per rules. Pay your personal attention to these instructions and ensure that there is no error in compliance.

Sincerely,

(Prashant Kumar)

1. All Police Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh
2. All Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police, District in charge, Uttar Pradesh
Copy:
For information and necessary action for the following:

1. All Director General of Police, U.P., Lucknow
2. Additional Director General of Police (Railways), U.P., Lucknow
3. Additional Director General of Police (Prosecution), U.P., Lucknow
4. Additional Director General of Police (Crime), U.P., Lucknow
5. Additional Director General of Police, Technical Services Headquarters, U.P., Lucknow
6. All zonal Additional Director General of Police, U.P.
7. Inspector General of Police (Law and Order), U.P., Lucknow
8. All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, U.P.