
DG-Circular Number 01 2024

Vijay Kumar,

IPS, Director General of Police,

Uttar Pradesh

Police Headquarters Tower-2

Date: Lucknow, January 3, 2024

Subject: General errors made by investigators during investigation of criminal cases and measures for their prevention

Dear Sir/Madam,

It is to be noted that the study and review of the decisions given by the court of trial in various criminal cases has revealed the fact that some important points are not taken care of at the time of deliberations by investigators, as a result of which problems arise in proving evidence and the prosecution beyond rational doubt, due to which the conclusion occurs in the form of defects.

You will agree that during the investigation in criminal cases, the errors made by investigators which are not successful as a result of the prosecution are being suggested for the prevention of the prosecution, which the details are as follows:

Critical errors on the basis of which the cases have defects: measures to prevent errors

1. Explaining the late delay in filing the first information report: The investigator should ask questions regarding the delay in registering the first information report while recording the statement of the complainant and the reason for this in the statement of Section 161 CRPC, and the complainant should be asked to include.All police station-in-charges should ensure that there is no delay from the police station level in filing any first information report.

2. Inspecting the scene and not collecting evidence: As soon as the first information report is filed, the police station officer should ensure that the scene is preserved without delay.On receiving the direction, the investigator should immediately reach the spot with the field unit and inspect the scene thoroughly, prepare a map of the scene in clear handwriting.After reaching the spot, the first photography and videography of the scene should be done.All small evidences present at the scene, such as cigarette pieces, footprints, broken glass, etc. should also be compiled.

3. Computer-related incidents: If computer, printer, or other attached equipment are present at the scene, the investigator should ensure that they do not touch nor operate them without the advice of a cyber expert, because they can be done soThe evidence available from can be destroyed.

4. In cases of death due to burning or drowning in water: The investigator should take care of every smallest detail on the spot, especially stuck objects stuck in the claws and fist of the deceased.

5. Panchnama and post-mortem report of the dead body: In cases of murder, dowry murder, or other types of death, the investigator should do proper photography and videography while conducting the body's panchnama.Even after the post-mortem report and all the investigation, if the cause of death is not known, the investigator should receive knowledge from the State Legislature Council.

6. Electronic evidence: All types of electronic/digital evidence, which are obtained through the complainant or witness, should be obtained along with the certificate of Section 65B Indian Evidence Act and as required to match it with the original source.should be sent.

7. In sexual offenses: In the event of sexual offenses, the victim as well as the accused should also be obtained without biological evidence, such as blood, semen, swab, spit, hair, nails, etc. and sent to Forensic Science Laboratory for examinationNeeded

8. Not compiling evidence during deliberations: During deliberation by the investigator, all such oral and documentary evidence should be collected so that the matter can be proved beyond doubt.

9. Not complying with Section 42(1) and Section 50 in matters of NDPS Act: On the basis of information received, a person is raided or a person is searched in custody, there is a section thatAccording to the provisions of the 50 NDPS Act, it is necessary for a gazetted police officer to be there.

10. Not following special provisions under the POCSO Act: The victim should be questioned by giving a child-friendly atmosphere.While taking the statement, the investigator should not be in the police uniform.