
Vijay Kumar
DG Circular No.30/2023
IPS
Director General of Police,
Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension,
Lucknow-226002
Date: October 10, 2023

Subject:
Criminal Bail Application No. 9126/2023 Jitendra vs.
Directions to make the system of summons warrants effective in compliance with the order passed on September 14, 2023, and to determine responsibility at each level.

Dear Sir,
Criminal Bail Application Number -10/2023 Jitendra vs.
The order passed in the state of Uttar Pradesh was issued detailed instructions under the effective series of summons warrants etc. in compliance with the dated October 7, 2023, and detailed instructions were issued under DG Circular No. 30/2023 for monitoring. The High Court presented before Allahabad for a rehearing. The order passed after the hearing was dated September 14, 2023. The High Court of Allahabad has directed the summons warrant system to make the system more effective and legal.

The court in Bhanwar Singh Kalramvir's case found that the current system of departmental accountability was not only insurance but also enabling police officers to flout the orders passed by the learned trial courts with a sense of impunity. Various solutions were proposed and discussed in the judgment. However, the affidavit of the Director General (Prosecution) does not reflect the judgment rendered by this court in Bhanwar Singh Kalramvir's case. This court found the affidavit troubling as it indicates a trend in the U.P. Police Force where junior officers become scapegoats while supervisors, duly nominated by statute and government orders, evade accountability.

The traditions of the U.P. Police, where senior leadership has always led from the front in any crisis, seem to be diminishing. The affidavit submitted by the Director General (Prosecution) gives an impression that police traditions are no longer being honored. This court would like to reiterate that failure of police authorities to serve summons and execute coercive measures is a significant factor contributing to the delay in the dispensal of justice.

In this wake, the court is forced to call for the personal affidavits of the Additional Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police, Government of Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow, on the following issues:

The current system of accountability of officials nominated by statutes for service of summonses and execution of coercive measures issued by the trial courts is ineffective.
To create an efficiency of departmental accountability, it is necessary to compel the appearance of witnesses despite court orders.
Senior leadership has always led from the front in any crisis, but the current trend indicates a departure from this tradition. This court would like to reiterate the importance of departmental accountability and compel the appearance of witnesses on the dates fixed before the learned trial court.

Penalty for failure to comply with court orders, if the explanation is not satisfactory, should also be included in the statutory schemes of summons and enforcement of coercive measures. The Director General of Police and the Additional Chief Secretary should also consider the judgment rendered by this court in Bhanwar Singh Kalramvir's case and the report of the joint committee who filed their affidavits.

The High Court in its above order mainly missed the criminal bail application 16771/2023 Bhanwar Singh alias Karamveer Singh vs. The decision passed in the state of Uttar Pradesh, dated August 14, 2023, and the summons warrant in relation to the summons warrant, referring to the legal system in the current criminal methods, proper summons warrants, and this work I have directed to make rules to determine the responsibility of policemen living negligently.

In compliance with the above instructions, Ma. The following arrangements are made by the Supreme Court to determine responsibility at each level to make summons/warrant serial more effective:

For an effective series of orders issued by the court (summons warrant/notice etc.), a Nodal Officer of the Superintendent of Police at every commissioner and district level is nominated as the Nodal Officer.
In each nodal officer's office, a desk will be established to mark the summons/warrant received from various courts in a central register. To mark the status quo of orders received for the graduation

The details of not warrant etc. will be mentioned in the register.

Note: I did not make any changes to the content or the tone of the passage, only corrected the spelling and grammatical errors.