
Circular Number: 02/2024

Vijay Kumar, Director General of Police,
B.P. to Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Gomtinagar Extension, Lucknow-226002

Date: Lucknow, January 17, 2024

Dear Sir/Madam,

As you are well aware that since 1861, the history of Uttar Pradesh Police and the compilation of various achievements and dimensions of Uttar Pradesh Police to prepare an Encyclopedia of Uttar Pradesh Police, as per Director General of Police, Rules and Granth, UP, Lucknow, has been formed. In this, the Superintendent of Police, Rules and Granth, and Commandant, IV-V Vahini PAC are nominated as members.

2. A lot of commendable work has been done by the said committee. So far, 50,000 pages of 1032 letters/records have been obtained from the UP State Archive. Similarly, 154 police gazettes from 1857 to 2015 and 54 administrative reports from 1904 to 2012 have been compiled. Apart from this, all unit headquarters have also been protected in this encyclopedia by demanding mandates etc. from the headquarters.

3. A search portal prototype has been created through NIC, through which records related to a particular period can be searched easily. Soon, after scalability testing, the software will be made available on the portal, which will be very useful for those who do research-related work.

4. The above archival work is progressive, and for the purpose of running it continuously, an Archival unit is being established in accordance with rules and texts. This is being done by the National Library, Kolkata, New Delhi, in collaboration with the government and non-government libraries, PM's museum and library, and other worldly libraries etc. For this, 10 officers and employees from all cadres from Uttar Pradesh, including one Deputy Superintendent of Police, are required.

5. Officers and employees who are willing to make their full contribution in this task and who have good knowledge of Hindi and English language should submit their application through their office/unit chief by the latest date: February 10, 2024. The Director General of Police, Rules and Granth, UP can send applications to Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow, so that the useful officer/employee can be selected for the said work. Preference will be given to officers/employees with knowledge of computers.

Sincerely,
Vijay Kumar,

To all district/unit in-charges, Uttar Pradesh

Copy:
Director General of Police, Rules and Manual, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow, sent for information and required for necessary action according to the above.