
Prashant Kumar, D.G. Circular No. 4 - 20/2024

IPS Director General of Police,

Uttar Pradesh

Police Headquarters, Gomti Nagar Extension,

Lucknow 226002

Date: April 28, 2024

Subject: Missed Criminal by Ma.Application Number: High Court Allahabad Bail 2997/2024 Himanshu Kanaujia vs.

Dear Sir or Madam,

Please miss the criminal attached to this circular.Bail Application Number: 2997/2024 Himanshu Kanaujia vs. U.P. Reference to the order dated March 12, 2024 passed by the High Court Allahabad in the state, through which the Hon'ble High Court Allahabad has given the lure of jobs to the youth by ongoing fake services agencies in the state. Expressing concern over incidents being done, the following comments have been made:

Every individual would like to stand on his own two feet to avoid the repercussions of such words unpretentious. Such an Untiring Pursuit for Employment by the Youth is Taken Advantage of by Certain Sections of Persons.

It is unfortunate that nowadays, everything seems to be happening in Government Sectors as well as Foreign Countries. The Youth Too, Without Knowing the Hidden Agenda, Are Falling Prey to Such Temptations of Lucrative Jobs and Paying Huge Amounts even by selling their properties at high rates of interest. While in some cases, the consultancy or agency would disappear overnight with the amount collected from the victims, In Other Cases, They would issue Fake Appointment Letters about the fraud played on them only at the time of joiningThe post. If ultimately, he is charged, his future will be in peril, and it is not easy to restore normalcy in life by overcoming the situation. In My Firm View, these white-collar crimes, which have drastic effects, should be dealt with iron hands, and Severe punishment should be awarded to the Culprits.

The above instructions by the High Court, M.S. 369/2023 Section 406/420/467/468/471 Bhadvi, Thana-Kotwali, district-Jaunpur accused Himanshu Kanaujia has given during the hearing in the bail application submitted by Himanshu Kanaujia and was denied bail, considering the accused's crime as serious.

You will agree that the youth are currently being lured by fake services agencies, and the youth are becoming victims of these agencies in their greed for employment. The Hon'ble High Court has also expressed concern over such incidents happening with the youth of the state.

Therefore, all of you are directed to take seriously the incidents of taking money from the youth by luring them into jobs. On receiving a complaint, the accused should be registered in the relevant sections and arrested as per rules, while making effective deliberations. The charge sheet should be presented in court so that the criminals involved in such fraud can be punished by the Hard Court of punishment. If the fact of earning such frauds by an institution or agency comes to our notice, then action should also be taken against the accused under the Gangs Act and the assets earned through crime should also be confiscated.

It will be the responsibility of all commissioners, district in-charge, and supervision officers to inform their subordinates about these instructions issued by the Hon'ble High Court and ensure strict compliance.

Sincerely,

Prashant Kumar

All Police Commissioners, Uttar Pradesh

All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police, District in-Charge, Uttar Pradesh

Copy: For information and necessary action for the following:

1. All Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow

2. Additional Director General of Police, Railways, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow

3. Additional Director General of Police (Prosecution), Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow

4. Additional Director General of Police (Crime), Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow

5. Additional Director General of Police, Technical Services Headquarters, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow

6. All zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh

7. Inspector General of Police (Law and Order), Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow

8. All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, UP