
Police Circular

Director General of Headquarters
Uttar Pradesh
Navam Floor, Tower 2, Police Headquarters, Signature Building, Gomtinagar Extension,
Lucknow

Number: DG - Circular 51/2023
Date: Lucknow, December 21, 2023

To:

1. All Police Commissioners, Uttar Pradesh
2. All Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police, District Charge

Subject: Prevention of Corruption Organization, U.P. - Regarding transfer of units of the prevention of corruption organization, the prosecutions registered in district police stations.

You are all aware that the policy of zero tolerance towards corruption is being adopted by the Uttar Pradesh government. In addition to the pre-established units of the Prevention of Corruption Organization to curb corruption, U.P. Government's mandate number: 10/2022/3096/6-PU-1-21-98/2022, dated: September 22, 2022, eight new units have been created. Thus, at present, 18 units of the Prevention of Corruption Organization are established at each enclosure/division level. At the same time, the mandate number: 119/2022/2098 p/six-Pu-6-2022300 (54)/2019 dated November 17, 2022 has notified the units set up at the divisional level of the Prevention of Corruption Organization as police stations. CCTNS is being taken into consideration at the police stations of the Prevention of Corruption Organization.

2. The fact has been brought to our cognizance by the organization headquarters that legal action should be taken due to delay in transferring the police stations of corruption prevention organization registered in the districts concerned by the corruption prevention organization. There is a hindrance, and the honorable courts are facing an uncomfortable situation. Due to this, there is also a strong possibility of the accused to have unfair benefits.

3. Hence, all of you are directed that the Prevention of Corruption Organization, U.P. The prosecutions registered in your district should be ensured immediately to the respective police stations of the Prevention of Corruption Organization. There should not be any kind of dysfunction or negligence in it.

(Vijay Kumar)
Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh

Copy:

1. Sent for information to Special Director General of Police, Law and Order, U.P.
2. Sent to Additional Director General of Police, Prevention of Corruption Organization, U.P., for information and necessary action.
3. Send the following for information and instructions to direct all the districts of their subordinate to ensure strict compliance:
1. All zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
2. All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh