
DG Circular Number- 2/2024

Prashant Kumar,

Director General of Police,

IPS,

Uttar Pradesh,

Headquarters Director General of Police, U.P., Lucknow,

Date: Lucknow, May 15, 2024,

Subject: Necessary guidelines regarding taking effective action against incidents of human trafficking and kidnapping in the state and by anti-social elements.

Dear Sir/Madam,

You are aware that in places like railway stations, bus stations, marketplaces, main intersections, and religious places, etc., begging is done by certain anti-social elements through children, girls, and women, etc. Apart from this, these people also attempt to clean the glass of trains or decide on very small materials. In many cases, incidents such as abducting children and involving them in acts like begging have also come to light. Organized and effective action should be taken against them by identifying criminal elements involved in activities like human trafficking, so that such incidents can be prevented. In this regard, action is expected as follows:

1. Taking extremely serious incidents like human trafficking and kidnapping of children, complete unveiling, arrest, and ensure as soon as possible. Under the leadership of gazetted officers, the report should be prepared by intensive interrogation from all concerned, so that detailed information regarding modus operandi, money trail, gangs, and accused can be arranged, and effective action can be taken.

2. Hot spots should be identified by making a proper analysis of child begging, missing incidents, and affected areas in all districts/commissionerates. CCTV cameras should be installed on these identified hotspots and made functional.

3. Effective action should be taken by compiling intensive arrests and vehicles to bring children and other people for begging at the identified hotspots, such as railway stations, bus stations, and important intersections.

4. Analyses of events should be analyzed by listing incidents from the last 10 years, identifying begging rackets related to human trafficking and kidnapping incidents. Treating sympathetically with beggars, ensure effective legal action by compiling intense notification in relation to criminal elements that make begging.

5. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, Section 76, 363, 370 Indian Penal Code, various police forces should be done properly in relation to various labor methods and other legal provisions.

6. For the prevention of child begging, overall rehabilitation of families involved in begging is necessary. For this, coordination should be taken by establishing coordination with the Child Welfare Committee, concerned departments, and district administration. It is also noteworthy that the Uttar Pradesh government is running schemes for all persons of society as per their requirement. In all districts, protection homes have been established, Government Shishu Griha, Government Children and Girls Home, Government Women Refugee, etc., where they are maintained and rehabilitated. Therefore, a coordinated and overall effort in this regard is expected.

7. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act-2015, Section 76, 363, 370 Indian Penal Code, all police forces should be done properly in relation to various labor methods and other legal provisions.

8. For the prevention of child begging, a meaningful dialogue should be established with them by listing district child protection unit, child line, NGOs, and voluntary organizations, and their officials active in districts/commissionerates, so that criminals involved in activities like child begging can be identified, and information regarding elements can be obtained. The said organizations should be motivated to make the common people aware in this regard. Authorized voluntary organizations and individuals who do excellent work for the prevention of child begging should be encouraged and honored.

Therefore, you are expected to ensure coordinated and overall efforts to prevent begging related to human trafficking and kidnapping incidents in your commissionerate/district. Effective compliance should be ensured on all the above points, so that effective control can be established on such events and activities.

Prashant Kumar,

All Police Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh,

All Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police, District in charge, Uttar Pradesh,

Copy: Sent to the following officers for information and necessary action:

1. All zonal Director General of Police/Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
2. Additional Director General of Police, Women and Child Safety Organization, U.P., Lucknow
3. Additional Director General of Police, Railways/UP-112, U.P., Lucknow
4. Additional Director General of Police, STF, U.P., Lucknow
5. Additional Director General of Police, Crime, U.P., Lucknow
6. Additional Director General of Police, Notification, U.P., Lucknow
7. All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh