
DG Circular Number 49/2023

Vijay Kumar
Director General of Police, IPS
Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Lucknow
Date: November 8, 2023

Subject: Necessary guidelines regarding quick and quality deliberations of crimes against women and Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes

Dear Sir/Madam,

You are all aware that the quality disposal of crimes against women and Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes people is one of the highest priorities of the police. Guidelines have been given from time to time through this headquarters regarding effective prevention of such crimes and processes adopted in deliberations.

You will agree that in the crimes that occur, such as rape, gang rape, acid attack, kidnapping, molestation, etc., there are questions on the functionality of the police and the common citizens create an adverse image of the police, so that the media and the honorable court have an adverse image. Criticisms have to be faced.

At present, schemes like Mission Shakti, Women Help Desk, and Women Beat, etc. are prevalent with the aim of awakening the spirit of safety of women. The successful role of all of you is required for the successful implementation of these schemes.

Interactions have been sent from time to time by the headquarters for flawless and quality disposal; they should be complied with proper compliance. The deliberations should be factual and incorporated scientific methods, which will improve qualitative improvement and the percentage of criminals being punished in the Honorable Court and will also control crimes.

The Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act-1989 has been enacted to provide protection against the oppression of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes. The Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Rules-1995 have been proposed in relation to this Act. Detailed guidelines have been given through circulars regarding the investigation and disposal of the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes crimes.

It is the responsibility of all of us to follow our obligations integrated and make sure that there is no indifference in the effective action for this.

Please study all circulars and letters issued earlier by the headquarters and ensure proper compliance with these instructions. There should be no laxity in this regard; otherwise, it will be taken seriously. Be sure to strictly comply with the above instructions.

Sincerely,
Vijay Kumar

Copy: The following sent for information and necessary action:

Special Director General of Police, Law and Order, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
Additional Director General of Police, Special Investigation, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
Additional Director General of Police, Women and Child Safety Organization, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
Additional Director General of Police, Railways, Uttar Pradesh
All Zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh
All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh