
Section Officer
PRPP Division
National Human Rights Commission (India)
Marav Adhikar Bhawan, C-Block
GPO Complex, INA, New Delhi 110023
Phone: 011-24663325/3273

Advisory for Ensuring the Welfare of Transgender Persons

Education:

Necessary steps may be taken to ensure access to education for transgender persons. Authorities may consider formulating a policy to address issues of violence, discrimination, and harassment at educational institutions. The education department of all states and union territories should advance educational institutes in their respective jurisdictions to protect gender non-conforming students from bullying, harassment, or other forms of violence.

State governments and UTs should ensure that in every district, an anti-discrimination cell is set up at the district level for transgenders, and a monitoring committee cell is established to address issues of prejudice, discrimination, sexual abuse, and other violence against transgender persons.

State governments should take necessary steps to make all educational institutions inclusive for transgender students.

Transgender students should not be discriminated against in higher studies, and suitable provisions for financial assistance to transgender students pursuing degree, diploma, or PG courses should be ensured. Provision for scholarships and free education should be formulated for transgender students.

Healthcare:

Set up medical boards at the district level to assist transgenders.

In every district civil hospital, necessary provisions should be made for consultation, treatment, and counseling for sex reassignment surgery. The following steps may also be considered:

* A suitable amount may be provided to members of the transgender community who want to opt for a sex change operation.
* Free reassignment surgery in government hospitals may be provided.

Employment:

The third gender as an identity category may be added for people of the transgender community seeking civil service jobs, enabling them to apply and appear in entrance examinations.

All agencies involved in document verification should be advised to verify and accept documents even if the name or photo on the transgender person's documents does not match the original documents, provided the candidate has a gender certificate.

Adequate steps should be taken to protect transgender persons from any form of violence or harassment at workplaces, and anti-discrimination policies should be implemented at all levels. Sensitization programs for other employees on sexual orientation and gender identity should be organized regularly.

A Grievance Redressal Cell should be set up in organizations where transgenders are employed to deal with issues as they arise. States should prioritize skill development training and better occupational opportunities for transgender persons.

Publicity for the National Career Service Portal should be given among the transgender community.

Loans at interest subvention basis may be extended to transgender persons to help them set up their own businesses. District administration should extend help to enable transgenders to form self-help groups through which they can get bank loans to start livelihood activities.

Promoting Inclusivity:

Forms that require candidates to indicate their sex must provide the third gender as a category in the options.

All public places should have separate waste management facilities for transgenders. Provide an exclusive platform for transgender persons to showcase their talent in cultural events. Consider Old Age Home facilities for the Transgender Community.

Welfare:

A single child of a dependent government employee or pensioner may be treated as an unmarried daughter for family pension and other benefits. Transgender persons should be allowed to inherit ancestral agricultural land.

A transgender welfare board may be set up as mandated under Section 10(1) of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Rules, 2020, for implementing sets, 2019.

The concerned ministry should ensure the timely release of funds allocated to Garima Greh. Queries regarding the disbursement of funds should be dealt with through proper mechanisms and handling support should be provided to complete the requisite formalities to resolution.

Insurance companies should be advised to consider and accept the transgender certificate issued by the appropriate authority for document verification purposes.

The Ministry of Corporate Affairs may consider incorporating welfare activities for transgender persons explicitly in the Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, which provides a list of activities making expenditures on corporate social responsibility activities.

Adequate steps should be taken to deal with complaints of sexual harassment of transgender persons. Multi-Police Identity Cards may be provided to transgenders to help them access government schemes and other benefits. Reach out to the family members of transgenders through anganwadi works to sensitize them about trans children.

Public should be sensitized through educational campaigns.

Grievance Redressal:

Set up a transgender protection cell under the Director General of Police, Protection of Rights Act, 2019, and the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Rules, 2020. One officer in every police station should be designated as a focal point for transgenders.