
DG Partner Number 1/2024


Prashant Kumar, Director General of Police,


IPS, Uttar Pradesh


Gomtinagar Extension, Lucknow-226002"


Dinank, Lucknow April 25, 2024


The subject is honored with weapons to the underqualified police personnel who are unhealthy and disturbed


Necessary directions in relation to not being installed in important duty


Dear Sir/Madam,


You are informed that some instances have come to light in the past where


Safety of the security guard installed at important and sensitive sites


An unpleasant situation has arisen due to disciplinary unbalanced behavior.


2 You will agree that the guard/scort duty is not given the expected importance


It is noteworthy that the duties of armed guards are very important, dressed, and this


Any negligence in the direction can be fatal on important and sensitive places


Such incidents whenever an unpleasant incident occurs from the workers engaged in security duty


Not only does the police refute the image of the administration, but the public is due to the protector of the protector


Insecurity awakens, this situation is not good if in this direction.


Strict disciplinary action is not taken against effective preventive and guilty personnel


So the situation will be more serious in future.


3 Issued instructions for compliance for effective prevention of the above-mentioned circumstances are being done:


Mentally disturbed police personnel should not be installed with other police personnel along with arms and duties should also be installed with prisoners, but be cautious.


District percentage before the police personnel are imposed in Gardo/Scor


Number of Garde Skort personnel by inspector, their physical mental state, keeping in view their personal and collective problems etc., be arranged.


Special care should be taken while putting police duty in Gardo/Scor that it should not be intoxication, such a worker's duty never put 2


If a worker is found upset/ angry for any reason unwell or any other reason, removal of its problem by removing the guard/scort duty done


To leave in duty of police personnel to be installed in guard/scort duty before required checking, in relation to rules of duty, brief in detail by the inspector.


In Gardo/Scor, if the police personnel of unwell/drug addiction are imposed. If it goes, its full responsibility is Deputy Superintendent of Police, Police Line and Pratikar will be the inspector


4 I would like to have my subordinate gazetted officials from the above points and make sure to comply strictly by informing the workers in detail.


Sincerely,


K


Prashant Kumar


All Police Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh


2. All Senior Police Authority/Superintendent of Police, District in charge/Railways, Uttar Pradesh


Copy- Send the following for information and necessary action:


1. The Director General of Police Law and Order, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow


2. Additional Director General of Police Railway, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow


3. Considerable zonal Additional Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh


4. All Inspector General of Police/Deputy Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh