
DG Circular Number 5/2024


Prashant Kumar, Director General of Police,
IPS, Uttar Pradesh
Police Headquarters, Tower 2,
Gomtinagar Extension, Lucknow-226002


Date: Lucknow: April 9, 2024


Subject: Special Petition Criminal No. Maa highest
2874/2023 W Kujur vs. Supreme Court in Jharkhand State by New Delhi

In connection with compliance with the order passed on March 12, 2024.

Dear Madam/Sir,

Please be aware that the Supreme Court has given instructions in their order dated March 12, 2024 (photocopy attached). It was directed to be complied with.

2. Reference to various judicial decisions by the Supreme Court

In the police report to be submitted under Section 173(2), some important points have been directed to essentially mention by discretion.

The following is:

(i) A report in the form prescribed by the state government stating
(a) The names of the parties;
(b) The nature of the information;
(c) The names of the persons who appear to be acquainted with the circumstances of the case;
(d) Whether any offense appears to have been committed and, if so, by whom;
(e) Whether the accused has been arrested;
(f) Sureties;
(g) Whether he has been forwarded in custody under Section 170.

(ii) If upon the completion of investigation, there is no sufficient evidence or reasonable ground of suspicion to justify the forwarding of the accused to a Magistrate, the police officer in charge shall clearly state in the report about compliance with Section 169 CRPC.

(iii) When the report is a response to a case to which Section 170 applies, the police officers shall forward to the Magistrate along with the report all the documents or relevant extracts thereof on which the prosecution proposes to rely, other than those already sent to the Magistrate during investigation; and the statements recorded under Section 164 of all the persons who the prosecution proposes to examine as witnesses.

(iv) In case of further investigation, the police officer in charge shall forward to the Magistrate a further report or reports regarding this and shall also complete with the details mentioned in the above sub-paragraphs (i) to (iii).

18. It is further directed that every statement shall strictly comply with the aforementioned directions, and non-compliance thereof shall be strictly viewed by the concerned courts in which the police reports are submitted.

3. All of you are directed that all your subordinate discussions and supervision officers should be aware of the above instructions in detail and the strictness of these instructions and ensure compliance therewith.

Attachment: Yayopari


Sincerely,

Prashant Kumar

All Police Commissioners,
Uttar Pradesh


Copy sent to the following for information and necessary action:

1. Director General, CBCID/EOW/UPPCL Cybercrime, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
2. Director General of Police (Law-Provision/Prosecution/Railways/ACO/ATS), U.P.
3. Additional Director General of Police (Zone), Uttar Pradesh
4. Inspector General of Police, ANTF, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
5. All Inspector Generals of Police/Deputy Inspector Generals of Police, U.P.