
DG Circular Number: A3/2020/23

Vijay Kumar

Director General of Police, IPS, Uttar Pradesh

Police Headquarters, Lucknow

Date: 01 September 2023

Subject: Preventing the Slaughter of Cow Dynasty, Smuggling of Milch Animals, and Taking Effective Action against Accused

Dear Sir/Madam,

It is to be informed that circular instructions have been issued from the headquarters level for the prevention of the slaughter of cow dynasty and the illegal transportation (smuggling) of cows. Due to lack of proper compliance, incidents of cow slaughter and unauthorized transport of cows and milch animals continue to occur in the state. Due to lack of effective control over such crimes, there is a lot of resentment in the public towards this cruel tendency and communal harmony and law and order is also affected.

The report received from your zone/commissionerate related to the above from 01-01-2023 to 31-07-2023 was reviewed at the headquarters level. After review, it was found that some districts such as Bareilly (42), Meerut (32), Moradabad (24), Saharanpur (24) and (21) have been registered in (21), which are the highest. A large number of accused are yet to be taken against the accused and investigative action.

Action should be taken against gangs/criminals involved in such illegal acts:

While listing the incidents of slaughter of cow dynasty and smuggling of milch animals in the last 10 years, the activities of active gangs/criminals involved in these prosecutions should be kept under alert.

Effective mechanisms should be developed to prevent the incidents of slaughter of cow dynasty and trafficking of milch animals. Action should be taken by preparing an action plan for their traffic, trafficking routes, and hot-spots.

Wherever there is information about the effort to kill or smuggle cows, then immediate cognizance should be taken and proceedings of registration should be initiated on such information. During deliberation of such prosecutions, immediate arrest of the accused should be ensured by compiling confirmation factor evidence.

Under the leadership of gazetted officers, the accused should be put through thorough questioning. In the inquiry, the unveiling of the entire chain of the accused, passage of transportation of cow dynasty, source and help of helpers/colleagues should be performed by performing planned discussion. Also, the involvement of the vehicle owner used in the incident should also be investigated.

An action plan should be prepared for effective prevention by identifying the police station areas of the Commission in which the said incidents are continuously happening in the police station areas. Contingency checking should be done by staying mobile under the leadership of senior officials on prevailing routes of smuggling.

In the police station area of ​​the Commission in which incidents of Gokshi are taking place continuously, action should be taken against them by determining the responsibility of such police-in-charge.

Effective checking should be done to prevent illegal transport/smuggling in border areas, especially in the zone/zone, commissioner, district connected to the state border. Social media cells established in districts should be alert to these matters. In order to prevent the activity of these cases, information collection and notification system should also be active and effective for beat constables, dial-112 etc.

100 percent arrest should be made by forming a team by forming a list of wanted accused. What efforts were made for the arrest of the accused, why the arrest could not be made, who was negligent in this, it should also be duly reviewed.

Charge sheet should be sent to the court after completing deliberations of pending prosecutors on the basis of virtue defect. After recalling to the charge sheet, the accused should be punished as much as possible.

The history sheet of habitual criminals who carried out such incidents should be opened and gang registration should be done by identifying the accused/colleagues and their activities should also be monitored continuously.

Action should be taken against the accused and gangs involved in illegal smuggling of cow dynasty and gangster Act against the gang.

Property should be processed under Section-14 (1) of the Gangster Act of property acquired by such criminals.

I would like you to organize a seminar in the Commissionerate district after being aware of the above instructions. In the seminar, make your subordinate gazetted officers/police-in-charge aware of these instructions and comply. Neither the instructions should not be relaxed/negligent at any level. Ensure strict compliance with the above instructions.

Sincerely,

Vijay Kumar

Copy:

All Police Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh
All Senior Superintendent of Police/Superintendent of Police In-charge District, Railways, Uttar Pradesh
Special Director General, Law and Order, Crime, Uttar Pradesh
Additional Director General of Police, Dial-112, Uttar Pradesh
Additional Director General of Police, Railways, Uttar Pradesh